The decree amending Article 47/1 of the Decree of 21 November 2003 concerning preventive health policy in the framework of COVID-19 in summer 2021 (1) The VLAAMS PARLIAMENT has not adopted and We, GOVERNMENT, confirm as follows: DECREET amending Article 47/1 of the Decree of 21 November 2003 on preventive health policy in the framework of COVID-19 in summer 2021 Article 1. This decree regulates a Community matter. Art. 2. In Article 47/1 of the Decree of 21 November 2003 on preventive health policy, inserted by the Decree of 18 December 2020, the following amendments shall be made: 1° in paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the second to the fourth paragraph by the following: "The person mentioned in the first paragraph shall be obliged to report to a COVID-19 test centre immediately after his arrival at a COVID-19 test centre, at a triage centre or at his doctor with the notification that he has been in a high-risk area, so that he can undergo a COVID-19 test. The Flemish Government may determine whether and when that person is required to report to a COVID-19 at the time of his or COVID triage centre at the time of his arrival at the time of his stay in question.in a high-risk area, the following paragraph shall be added to paragraph 3: the following sentence shall be added: "The Flemish Government shall, within the category of high-risk areas, distinguish sub-categories on the basis of scientific insights on the SARS- CoV-2-virus" shall be added to paragraph 3: "The Flemish Government shall be added to paragraph 3: "The Flemish Government shall, within the category of high-risk areas, apply sub-categories on the basis of the scientific views on the SARS- CoV-2-virus" shall be added: "The Flemish Government may determine whether and when that person shall again apply to a COVID-19 test centre, at a trial center or to his doctor, and shall be informed by the person "After a contact with a person referred to in paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 3:By way of derogation from paragraph 2, paragraph 1, and paragraph 3, paragraph 1, the Flemish Government may, on the basis of scientific findings, provide that temporary isolation or the obligation to report to a COVID-19 test centre, triage centre or treating physician listed in paragraph 2, second paragraph, and in paragraph 3, second paragraph, shall not apply to persons belonging to an age category determined by the Flemish Government. The Flemish Government shall also determine the conditions under which that derogation shall apply." Article 3. This decree shall enter into force on a date fixed by the Flemish Government. Announce this decree, which shall be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Brussels, 25 June 2021.