For example, can be considered as essential tasks: - garbage collection, garbage treatment and cleaning; - surveillance of parks; - fire fighting and emergency medical assistance, as well as any supporting tasks such as vehicle maintenance or any other supporting tasks which cannot be carried out by telework; - Actiris employees exercising their functions in the branches. 1.3 The points of contact to the public The points of contact should in principle be closed, except if the continuity of the regional public service is to be ensured and if such services are considered essential. In order to ensure the continuity of the public service, the leading official for the particular point of contact may decide that the point of contact (partly) is to remain open or that the point of contact is to be taken into account. In any case, sufficient measures must be taken to ensure healthy working conditions. This implies that staff operate on one of the following general hygiene recommendations:In the case of accidents at work and occupational diseases, you can also apply to the teleworker in full. The service exemption is an absence during the hours of service for a certain period with maintenance of rights. Staff in duty exemption receive a wager and are in service activity. The period for determining seniority is fully included. Staff in duty exemption do not receive meal cheques. 3. You are at work and feel fluy? Please notify as soon as possible your functional chef and the competent HR service which will allow you to leave work to go home or to receive medical care. The day on which you leave work because of illness, is considered to be a working day: there is no medical certificate required for that day and you are not required to take a sick day. If you are on leave for several days, please send a certificate to the medical check service and inform your functional chef and the HR service (proudious duration, leaving home or not).The person with whom you live together, or a family member living under the same roof as you, has a disease which his doctor considers to be serious and highly contagious. You should ask your doctor to contact the chief physician of the medical control department of the Administrative Health Service to which you belong, in order to determine by mutual agreement the most appropriate preventive measures, including chemoprophylaxis and prophylactic leave. This leave has been paid. - any other leave, depending on the conditions in question. 6. In the case of child daycare, class or school for the sake of Corona, without prejudice to more favourable arrangements at federal level, where the staff member is in one of the following situations: 1° where a minor child of up to 15 years of age is not entitled to the daycare or the school, because the daycare period, the class or school of the child is closed by means of a measure to prevent the distribution of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus;a measure to prevent the distribution of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus to be used by all of its staff. This certificate should indicate the period of closure. 7. A colleague has flu? Respect all the practical hygiene tips available at www.info-coronavirus.be and www.sciensano.be. 8. Departure abroad and return after stays outside Belgium The FOD Foreign Affairs has communicated a series of recommendations and instructions on departure and return of travel from abroad since summer 2020. We recall that non-essential travels are prohibited. It is important to refer to the website https://diplomatie.belgium.be/nl to know the last instructions in force and to ensure that they are respected within the Brussels government institutions. If, despite everything, a staff member has to undertake an essential journey, and especially when his function is not eligible for telework, he is invited to contact with his functional chief and his service HR to ensure the continuity of service and organization of the work, in particular if the staff member of the board of duty is required.For professional reasons, the person responsible for the institution should consider every specific case in the light of the evolution of the situation at the place of destination. He should use the website https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en. 9bis. Permission to be absent during the hours of service to be vaccinated Unless his working regime allows a different arrangement, the staff member is allowed to be absent for up to 3 hours 48 minutes during the hours of service to be vaccinated. The staff member shall keep his wager and the fees and allowances applicable to him. The staff member shall inform his hierarchical superior prior to the vaccination. The staff member shall in turn inform the HRM. The staff member shall also inform his hierarchical superior if the duration of absence during the hours of service is to be extended for a reason outside the staff member's will. After vaccination, the staff member shall submit the certificate of vaccination to the HRM. For the functions considered essential, as stated in point 1.2.2 of this letter, the staff member shall also inform his hierarchical superior of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of his/s of duty in order of duty.- Decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 21 March 2018 laying down the administrative status and remuneration arrangements of officials of the Brussels Regional Administration, in particular Article 165 which constitutes the legal basis for the granting of exemption from duty, is also applicable to the contractual staff; - Decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 21 March 2018 laying down the administrative status and remuneration arrangements of officials of the Brussels Regional Government, in particular Article 165 which constitutes the legal basis for the granting of exemption from duty, is also applicable to the contractual staff;