(a) the credit institutions established in Belgium referred to the statute and supervision of the credit institutions of 22 March 1993 and the National Bank of Belgium;(a) Article 105 (1) (a) of the Law of 22 March 1993 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions. However, this reference has become obsolete since it has been abolished and is currently replaced by the Law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies.Article 105 (1) of the Royal Decree of 23 December 1996 amending the Law of 17 June 1991 on the organization of the public credit sector and the holding of the public sector holdings in certain private financial companies and various other provisions, as regards the National Bank for Professional Credit, the credit associations which have acceded to the professional credit network are no longer subject to the supervisory powers of the prudential type of NV Professional Credit, which has since been exercised exclusively by the Authority for Financial Services and Markets (FSMA). These associations therefore fall within the scope of the Law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies.It is therefore necessary to make explicit mention of this newly created company. Moreover, this provision must also take account of some policy changes. Thus, the Flemish Housing Code was adapted so that the new local housing companies are recognized since this adjustment by the Flemish Government and thus no longer by the Flemish Social Housing Society. In the Flemish Region, the power was also delegated to the energy houses to provide energy loans for certain social groups. Also in the Walloon Region, the new Société wallonne du Crédit social works closely together with local partners who on their own initiative can conclude loans. Since they also belong to the scope of this provision it is necessary to adapt the definition to that provision. In order to increase the readability of this provision, a distinction is made between the companies or entities which aim to achieve social housing and companies or entities which have the purpose of providing social loans. Art. 116, KB/WIB 92 Due to opinion 66.916/3 of the State Council of State is the proposed amendment to Article 116, 92.The report of Frédéric Vanneste, First Hearing Officer, on the basis of which the French and Dutch versions of the Opinion were issued to the board of directors of the Chamber. The opinion of which the text follows is given on 13 February 2020. However, the draft Royal Decree submitted for its opinion merely provides for the following comments. 1. In one of the recitals in the preamble to the draft, it is stated "that this decision does not in itself have any budgetary impact'. However, the draft implements Article 266 of the Income Tax Code 1992 (hereinafter 'WIB 92'), which deals with the omission of the withholding tax to be added to Article 285 and 288 of the WIB 92, in so far as it is intended to apply Article 116, 2° of the Royal Decree of 27 August 1993 to implement the Income Tax Code 1992' (hereinafter 'the KB/WIB 92') to include references to Articles 285 and 288 of the WIB 92 in so far as to the collection of the withholding tax under Articles 17 and 90 of the Royal Decree of 27 August 1993 (hereinafter 'the Royal Decree').The following shall be added to the provisions of Article 105 (1) of the KB/WIB 92 on the withholding tax of FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below:- the Flemish Housing Fund, the Société wallonne du Crédit social, the Fonds du Logement des Familles nombreuses de Wallonie and the Housing Fund of the Brussels-Capital Region, together with the companies or institutions recognised by the Flemish Region, the Brussels-Capital Region or the Walloon Region, whose purpose is to grant loans for the purchase of a building land, for the purchase, construction, renovation, renovation or the setting-up of a family home, as well as for its equipment with suitable furniture or for the implementation of energy-saving measures;";