Decision of the Walloon Government concerning the granting of additional compensation to small and medium-sized enterprises pursuant to Articles 10 and 19; having regard to the report of 7 July 2020 drawn up in accordance with Article 3 2° of the Decree of 11 April 2014 implementing the resolutions of the United Nations Women's Conference in Beijing in September 1995 and integrating the gender dimension into the whole of regional policies; having regard to the opinion of the Treasury Inspector given on 8 July 2020; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget, given on 9 July 2020; having regard to the opinion of the Council of State, given on 15 July 2020, pursuant to Article 84, paragraph 1, 3° of the Laws coordinated at the Council of State on 12 January 1973;Whereas the sectors of recreational activities, arts and entertainment eligible in this Decision are sectors falling within the sphere of cultural activities, but which by their nature of support of the said activities nevertheless fall within the scope of economic competence; considering the sectors and sub-sectors which continue to be significantly affected by the restriction of travel; considering the sectors and sub-sectors which continue to be affected by the restriction of the National Security Council in respect of the social bubble; considering the sectors and sub-sectors which continue to be significantly affected by the restriction of the National Security Council in respect of mass events; whereas, therefore, there is reason to take measures in these areas; on the proposal of the Minister of Economy; after deliberation, Decision: Article 1. For the purposes of this Decision, the following: 1° Decree of 11 March 2004 concerning regional incentives in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises;First paragraph, 6°, of the Decree of 21 December 2016 granting aid through an aid portfolio integrated in the Walloon Region to project promoters and small and medium-sized enterprises, to compensate for the services to promote entrepreneurship or growth, and to establish a database of authentic sources associated with that integrated portfolio, accessible at https://indemnitecovid.wallonie.be; Art. 2 The additional fee is granted in accordance with Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid, hereinafter referred to as Regulation 1407/2013. Art. 3 The Minister grants, in accordance with the modalities laid down by him, an additional remuneration of three thousand euro to the undertaking which has been granted: 1° a compensation of five thousand euros granted by the Walloon Region; 2° the effects of the measures against the coronavirus COVID-19, either because it is one of theThe compensation fee referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be granted only once by the company registered in the Cross Point Bank of Enterprises, in accordance with Book III, Title 2, Chapter 1 of the Code of Economic Law. The Minister may supplement sectors or parts of sectors listed in paragraph 1, 3°, and add new ones if they meet the conditions referred to in paragraph 1, 2°. Article 4. The undertaking shall submit to the Administration, via a form on the web platform, the application for additional remuneration until 15 October 2020. The Minister shall determine the date for the submission of the applications for additional remuneration. When submitting the file on the web platform, the undertaking shall provide, in particular, with the following information: 1° its number of the Cross Point Bank of Enterprises; 2° a declaration of honour to be completed on the web platform; 3° the account number of the undertaking or the beneficiary.Art. 8. The Minister of Economy is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Namur, 16 July 2020. For the Walloon Government: The Prime Minister, E. DI RUPO The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade, Research and Innovation, Digital Technologies, Spatial Planning, Agriculture, the "IFAPME," and the Skill Centres, W. BORSUS