The decree granting special powers to the College of the French Commission in the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic Memorie of Explanatory Memorandum This decree is intended to enable the College of the French Community Commission to react rapidly to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this context, the College should be able to take all useful measures to prevent and address, under severe danger, any situation which constitutes a problem in the strict framework of the fight against the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences. Today, we do not see the least improvement in the epidemiological situation in Belgium since the measures adopted by the Federal Minister for Home Affairs's decision of 8 October 2020 amending the Ministerial Decision of 30 June 2020 imposing an urgent measure to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19; on the contrary, there is a real deterioration of the situation. It is time for our health system to continue to carry out its essential tasks, i.e.The Brussels-Capital Region, in its capacity as governor, in particular following a provincial crisis cell on 24 October 2020 with the 19 mayors of the Brussels-Capital Region, the heads of the police zones and the representatives of the disciplines of crisis management, has taken additional measures to limit social contacts. In the Brussels-Capital Region today the strictest measures of the whole country apply. We can only conclude that all these elements require the government to be able to react quickly to support the various sectors of our society and in particular those most affected. In view of the seriousness of the situation, the Brussels-Capital entities plan to continue and strengthen their actions in this field. Therefore, the speed with which this second wave of COVID-19 develops itself must be considered as the most appropriate legal means for the College to have the appropriate legal instruments to respond and act properly.Article 3 The opinion of the Council of State No 67.142 of 27 March 2020 on the bill authorizing the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 provides: "It is provided for the compulsory ratification of all decisions taken under the proposed scheme, even if this is not strictly necessary from a legal point of view. Thus, it is possible for the King to take measures or make amendments to regulatory provisions which are already subject to its competence under the current legislation but which, by virtue of the decision on special powers, obtain all the force of law established by Article 5 (1) of the proposal.- the adaptation of the legal texts relating to the matters covered by the crisis which fall within the competence of the French Commission; - the management of the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic within the framework of the powers of the French Commission and its institutions; - the measures relating to prevention and security, including the measures which allow the staff to be made available for the management of the pandemic within the framework of the powers of the French Commission and its institutions; - the urgent health measures relating to matters within the competence of the French Commission; - the measures relating to the public office of the French Commission.Article 4. The authorization granted to the College by Article 2 of the current Decree is valid for two months from the entry into force of the Decree. The period laid down in the first paragraph may be extended once for the same duration. Article 5. The present Decree will enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Brussels, 26 November 2020. For the College: B. TRACHTE, President of the College of the French Community Commission