The decree to take urgent measures in respect of the emergency funds for culture, youth, sport, media and local authorities, and in relation to the fight against poverty following the COVID-19 pandemic (1) The VLAAMS PARLIAMENT has adopted and We, GOVERNMENT, confirm the following: DECREET to take urgent measures in respect of emergency funds for culture, youth, sport, media and local authorities, and in relation to the fight against poverty following the COVID-19 pandemic CHAPTER 1. - Introductory provisions Article 1. This decree regulates a Community and regional issue. Article 2. The fees paid for the implementation of this decree are intended to cover the direct or indirect economic or social consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic budget of the COVID-19 pandemic. This decree contains one-off expenditure within the limits of the budget appropriations.13 April 1999 authorizing the Flemish Government to join and cooperate in the establishment of the association without profitable purpose Flemish Audiovisual Fund: EUR 5.000.000 for the VAF/Film Fund; 2° the Flemish Literature Fund, set up by the Decree of 30 March 1999 establishing a Flemish Literature Fund: EUR 1.300.000; 3° the Culture Window referred to in Article 3 of the Decree of 12 May 2017 laying down various provisions in the policy fields of culture and youth: EUR 500.000. Section 2. - Support for the youth sector Art. 4. The Flemish Government grants support to the youth sector following the COVID-19 pandemic. The Flemish Government grants support from the emergency fund to hostels as mentioned in the Decree of 6 July 2012 granting aid to hostels, youth centers, support structures and the non-profit General Youth Service, to youth centres, recognized on the basis of the decree of 18 July 2003 concerning the stays and associations operating in the framework of Tourism for Allen, and to the organizations of January 2012 in favour of a youth policy on the basis.The Flemish Government grants aid to the regional television broadcasting organizations listed in Part III, Title IV, Chapter II, Section III, of the Decree of 27 March 2009 on radio broadcasting and television. § 3. The Flemish Government grants aid from the emergency fund to the recognized local and network radio broadcasting organizations listed in Part III, Chapter III, Section I, of the Decree of 27 March 2009 on radio broadcasting and television. § 4. Vzw Flemish Audiovisual Fund, established by the Decree of 13 April 1999 authorising the Flemish Government to join and cooperate with the establishment of the association without a profitable purpose Flemish Audiovisual Fund, receives an additional grant of 1,900,000 euro under the VAF/Media Fund and the VAF/Game Fund for the support of their target group to the COVID-19 pandemic.Article 9. The Flemish Government determines the shares of the Flemish municipalities in the emergency fund on the basis of the distribution of sectoral grants to the municipalities under local youth policy, local culture policy and local sports policy which were added to the Flemish Municipal Fund in 2018 by the Decree of 22 December 2017 providing guidance to the budget 2018. Art. 10. The funds from the emergency fund that the Flemish Government grants to the municipalities are a general operating grant for which no specific accountability is required for the municipalities. Art. 11 In the allocation of the funds from the emergency fund for the financial support of local authorities are not required for the purpose of prior control. Art. 12. The distribution of the emergency fund for the financial support of local authorities over the municipalities of the Flemish Region is included in Annex 1 to this Decree.Article 15 No prior control is required when the grant is granted. Art. 16. The distribution of the grant among the municipalities of the Flemish Region is included in Annex 2, which is attached to this decree. CHAPTER 4. - Entry into force Art. 17. This decree enters into force on the day after its publication in the Belgian State Gazette. Announce this decree, ordering that it be published in the Belgian State Gazette. Brussels, 19 June 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, the Flemish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Culture, ICT and Facilit Management, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister of Home Government, Administration, Integration and Equal Opportunities, B. SOMERS The Flemish Minister of Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand, B. WEYTS The Flemish Minister of Welfare, Family and Armed Fighting, W. BEKE The Flemish Minister of Brussels, Youth and Media, B. DALLE _____ Nota (1) Plenary 2019 - Proposal of the Flemish Minister of Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand, B. WEYTS The Flemish Minister of Welfare, Family and Armed Forces, W. BEKE The Flemish Minister of Brussels, Youth and Equal Opportunities, B. DALLE