Law laying down measures for the control of the COVID-19 pandemic and other urgent measures in the field of health care (1) FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greeting. The Chamber of Representatives has adopted and We confirm, as follows: TITLE I. - INTRODUCING PROVISION Article 1. This law regulates a matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. TITLE II. - DEFINITIONS AND PERIODS Art. 2. For the purposes of this law, the following shall be understood as: 1° "alternative": non-approved medicinal products referred to in Article 8; 2° "apotheker" means any practitioner of medical preparation, as referred to in Article 6 (1) of the WUG, operating in a pharmacy opened to the public; 3° "arts" means the practitioner of medicine, as referred to in Article 3 (1) of the WUG; 4° "VHB" means the marketing authorisation of medicinal products, as referred to in Article 6 (1) of the Act;The provisions of Article 2 (1) of the FAGG Act and devices falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 concerning medical devices, and Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC, or within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2017/746 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 concerning medical devices for in vitro diagnostics and Directive 98/79/EC; 15° "locoregional clinical hospital network" means the legal formalised cooperation between hospitals as referred to in Article 14/1 of the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care institutions; 16° "unexpected update" means the effect of which is not compatible with the summary of the medicinal product's characteristics referred to in Article 6 (1).In order to ensure continuity of care, 28° "WUG" means the law on the exercise of health care professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015; 29° "hospital" means a hospital, as referred to in Article 2 of the Coordinated Law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments, and of a hospital operated by the Ministry of Defence; 30° "hospital pharmacy" means a hospital official, recognised under the Hospital Act; 31° "hospital pharmacy" means any medical practitioner, whether or not related to COVID-19, in particular in the common services, the hospitalisation, the day hospitalization, the medical facilities and the RIZIV agreements; 32° "hospital services" means all the activities of the hospital and hospital care providers in the hospital, whether or not related to COVID-19, in particular in the common services, the hospitalisation, the technical platforms, the hospital services and the hospital services in question; and those of the hospital services in which are carried out in accordance with the principle of the principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principle of principleFor the purposes of applying the International Health Regulations (2005) and Decision No 1082/2013/EU on serious cross-border threats to health, Article 3. Except where otherwise provided for in this Act, Articles 52, first paragraph, 53, 53a and 54 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to the time limits laid down by or pursuant to this Act. TITLE III. - STRATEGIC STOCK AND MONITORING OF THE PRESIDENCY CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 4. This Title shall be intended to ensure the regular supply by the State of the health system. Article 5. The Federal Health Office shall be responsible for the construction, maintenance and management of the strategic stocks, including the assignments on the basis of Title 3. The King may also regulate the strategic stock and may establish minimum stocks of products and/or other federal authorities or ministries referred to in Article 2.In accordance with Article 4 of the Law of 5 July 1994 concerning blood and blood derivatives of human origin; 5° hospitals; 6° banks for human body material referred to in Article 2, 24° of the Law of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for the medical application to humans or scientific research; 7° intermediate structures for human body material referred to in Article 2, 25° of the Law of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for the medical application to humans or scientific research; 7° intermediate structures for human body material referred to in Article 2, 25° of the Law of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for the purposes of medical application to humans or scientific research.In the case of dispensation referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Minister or his delegate may, by decision of the alternative, make an alternative to the use of the alternative to the use of the alternative to the use of the alternative. In the case of dispensation referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Minister or his delegate may, by decision of the alternative, make an alternative available to one or more of the following conditions: the pharmacist shall address his request to the government which ensures the operational management of the strategic stock. § 3. In the case of dispensation referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Minister or his delegate may, by decision of the alternative, make an alternative available to one or more of the following conditions:The doctor responsible for the preservation and delivery of the alternative referred to in Article 6 shall be responsible for the distribution of the alternative in accordance with the instructions given by the Minister or his delegate and the manufacturer. The doctor who prescribes an alternative in accordance with Article 10 (3) may not be held liable for the damage directly or indirectly resulting from the fact that the medicinal product is not distributed, delivered, prepared or administered, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.The presumption of forgery and any suspicion of a lack of quality of the medicinal product referred to in Article 10, §§ 1 and 2 shall also, within twenty-four hours of its adoption by the FAGG, place the hospital pharmacist, or the pharmacist, the medicinal product or the medicinal products in quarantine, pending the instructions of the Minister or his delegate. In quarantined products must be physically placed in a separate sealed space. Any system replacing the physical quarantine must provide equivalent security. Upon receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the Minister or his delegate shall, as soon as possible, after consulting the FAGG on the probable risk to public health of the medicinal product concerned, give instructions to the hospital pharmacists and pharmacists. TITLE IV. - TEMPERABILITY OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN THE BOX OF THE PROFYLAXAMAGNES TOURISTS DE COVID-19-PANDThe provisions of Article 12a, Paragraph 1, paragraph 5 of the Medicines Act, or contained in the good distribution practices laid down in Article 12b, Paragraph 1, paragraph 14, of the Medicines Act, shall not apply to such persons. § 3. The King may lay down the detailed rules and conditions to be complied with by those operators referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of this Article in the performance of their duties. TITLE V. - TEMPORARY MEASURES TO PROTECTION OF THE REGULAR HEALTH SYSTEM DURING THE COVID-19-PANDOM CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 17. § 1. The measures taken on the basis of this Title shall be contrary to the provisions of this Title. § 2. Without prejudice to any other provision, the provisions in this Title shall be adopted in accordance with the following administrative act: after notification to the person to whom the measures are imposed; 2° in the case of a regulatory act: after publication on the website of the FAGG. Without prejudice to the previous paragraph, the regulatory acts shall be published without delay in the Belgian Official Journal. § 2.In order to ensure the independence of the inspectors of the agency in respect of the activities referred to in § 1, the FAGG shall be empowered to propose to the Minister a regulatory framework to ensure the follow-up, application and control of this Title. Article 19, § 1. The Minister may entrust the FAGG with the prior market research and preparation of the award for the acquisition of products by the State in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. § 2. The King may adopt the minimum organisational measures for the implementation of § 1 and the arrangements for monitoring such activities. The FAGG shall implement the organisational measures to ensure the independence of the inspectors of the agency in relation to the activities referred to in § 1, Chapter 3.Article 22. The FAGG shall not publish the notifications referred to in Article 21 on its website. The King may determine the conditions and detailed rules for the publication referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Article 23. The Minister or the delegate may suspend or prohibit the outsourcing pursuant to Article 20 by decision if the provisions of this Chapter are not complied with or if the need for outsourcing in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic does not outweigh the risk of outsourcing. The King may lay down the conditions and detailed rules for the application of paragraph 1 of Article 24. The manufacture pursuant to Article 20 of implantable medical devices and radiation equipment is prohibited, the King may determine the further rules under which non-compliant devices may be admitted to the market either as a medical device or to a non-medical purpose. Without prejudice to Article 59 of Regulation 2017/745 of 5 April 2017 concerning medical devices and Article 54 of Regulation 2017/746 of 5 April 2017 concerning medical devices for in vitro diagnostics, shall be subject to the following conditions:The detection, prevention, diagnosis of COVID-19 or treatment of patients with COVID-19 and it is necessary to ensure continuity of care of the medicinal product or preparation produced on the basis of the raw material is an integral part of the treatment, prevention or diagnosis of any other disease or condition, in which the availability of the product and the continuity of care for the sake of the COVID-19 pandemic is compromised; 2° there are no therapeutic equivalent medicinal products or raw materials available; this is particularly the case where: a. the medicinal product or raw material is produced only at one location; b. there are no other (in exchangeable) doses or strengths available; c. there are no generic variants available; d. there are no medicinal products or raw materials which are an equivalent substitute for treatment to be used in the Belgian market.In the absence of an immediate measure to increase mortality or unbearable suffering caused by COOVID-19, the measure may be taken without delay. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 may be contrary to the position of the wholesaler, or manufacturer, after notification in accordance with Article 17 (1) 2°. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 and shall be limited to the time limit laid down by the Minister. This period may not be longer than the expected duration of the period referred to in paragraph 1 2°. § 4. The King may determine the conditions and details for the application of this Article.In accordance with Article 27 (6) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 27 (6) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on behalf of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down general rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671, p. 1).In order to ensure the continuity of the board of directors in accordance with Article 30, § 1. The King may release an amount for intervention in favour of hospitals as provided for in Article 2 of the Hospital Act, in order to partially cover the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic, through a redistribution between or within the partial annual objectives, as provided for in the GLU Act, and/or through exogenous financing. § 2. The King may, on an annual basis, fix an amount for an National Grant which will be part of the insurance income, as provided for in Article 191 of the GLU Act. Art. 31. The provisional allocation of the amount for this intervention referred to in Article 30, § 1, shall be carried out by the payment of an advance calculated on the basis of the part of each hospital in relation to the total RIZIV expenditure of the hospitals for the whole of the regular hospital activity as shown by the RIZIV documents P, supplemented by the variable amount of its financial resources referred to in Article 30, § 1, as well as the financial advances for the financial year referred to in Art.Article 101 of the Ziekenhuiswet (Ziekenhuiswet) on the basis of Article 101 of the Ziekenhuiswet (Ziekenhuiswet) on the basis of which it is carried out more quickly, this payment or part of it may, by way of derogation from the normal payment mechanism of the budget of the hospitals' financial resources, be made directly to the hospitals. The King may determine detailed rules for the payment of the compensation and the set-off of the advance payments. TITLE VII. - TEMPORARY MEASURES RELATING TO THE TEST STRATEGY AND TESTFINANCING CHAPTER 1. - REGULATION OF THE PRICES OF TESTING ARTICLE 34. In the context of the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic, the King may fix the maximum prices of medical devices for in vitro diagnostic tests for the detection of at least SARS-CoV-2 virus or for the detection of antigens of the said virus against the said virus.The Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held that, in the absence of such a measure, the conditions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 shall be met by the competent authorities of the Member States in respect of the conditions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.The quality assurance processes, validation of test material and scientific research and development of protocols for new methods and techniques in the detection of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. CHAPTER 5. - SUBSTITUTION OF TESTING Art. 41. The King may lay down specific conditions and rules if the tests carried out by means of medical devices for in vitro diagnostics for at least the detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus or for the detection of antigens or antibodies against the said virus are used by a subcontractor. He may, in particular, determine the conditions and rules to be met by the invoicing and the reporting of those benefits. TITLE VIII. - TEMPORARY MEASURES RELATING TO THE TEMPORARY MEASURES IN THE CONTACT OF THE COVID-19-PANDEMI Art. 42.In accordance with Article 4 (1), (3) of the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. In view of the assessment of the risks associated with the long-term effects of medicinal products (COVID-19) as referred to in Article 12sexies of the Law of 25 March 1964 on the medicinal products and the detailed guidelines published by the European Commission in the "Module VI - Collection, management and submission of notifications of suspected adverse reactions of medicinal products (GVP) as referred to in the last available version, and as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, 3°, of the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products.For the purposes of the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security or pursuant to the law of 31 December 1963 on civil protection, the inspectors and inspectors shall have the powers referred to in paragraph 1 of the law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of users in the field of foodstuffs and other products. Those who refuse or fail to behave in accordance with the measures taken in application of the ministerial decision referred to in paragraph 1 and for which the inspection department of the Directorate-General for Animal, Plant and Food of the Ministry of Public Health shall be punished by a prison sentence of eight days to three months and with a fine of twenty-six euros to five hundred euros, or by one of those penalties only. Those who oppose the checks of the inspectors and inspectors referred to in paragraph 1 shall be punished by a sentence of 15 days to three months and with a fine of one hundred euros to two thousand euros.If necessary, the opinions may be obtained within a shorter period than the statutory or regulatory period prescribed, or the measures may be taken without the statutory or regulatory proposals or opinions being sought in advance. The Minister responsible for Social Affairs shall justify this need. TITLE XIII. - EXEMPTION TO PRESENCE FOR COVID-19-YEAR Art. 52. The price reductions in the framework of the application of Article 35b of the GLU Law or Article 69 of the Law of 27 April 2005 on the control of the health budget and laying down various health provisions shall not apply to the medicinal products which, at the time of entry into force of the reduction in the price of medicinal products in the framework of the Minister or his delegate, are subject to a decision of the Royal Decree of 24 March 2020 on special measures to combat drug shortages in the framework of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 8 April 2021 on the basis of the special measures to combat drug shortages in the framework of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemion and on the basis of Article 27.In Article 9 of Royal Decree No 20 of 13 May 2020, temporary measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure the continuity of medical care in accordance with the provisions of the law referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be replaced by the following: "The seizure or other execution of the statutory or contractual staff, as referred to in Article 47, and the person who opposes it, shall be punishable by imprisonment of one month to one year and with a fine of EUR 200 to EUR 15 000 or with one of these penalties only. "Article 17 of the Medicines Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to Title V. Art. 56. If repeated within three years of a sentence, for infringement of Titles III and V and their implementing decisions, the penalty may be doubled. "If the medical treatment is carried out by means of information and communication technologies, the insurance of medical care provided for the purposes of the following treatment shall be granted only if the conditions of reimbursement are expressly provided for this purpose. "The King shall determine the definitions and conditions of application to which are to be met by one of these benefits in accordance with Article 58 of the Royal Decree No 20 of 13 May 2020.In Article 1 of Royal Decree No 29 of 5 June 2020 implementing Article 5 (1) 2° of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 (II) for the purpose of assimilation of unforeseen internship periods of doctors in training, endorsed by the Law of 24 December 2020, the words "31 December 2020" shall be replaced by the words "1 October 2021" Article 61. Article 35ter, Paragraph 1a of the GLU Law, inserted by the Programme Act of 20 December 2020, shall be supplemented by two paragraphs, worded as follows: "The reductions made by the King pursuant to the first and second paragraphs shall not apply to the pharmaceutical specialties with the ATC5 code J05AR and to more than one active component: 1° of which the applicant has demonstrated that the price and remuneration basis (out of the company), calculated per unit, per unit, to the basis of the application of the principle of Article 1, to the principle of the principle of the first and second paragraph of Article 1, to the principle of the principle of the first subparagraph of Article 1, to the principle of Article 1, to the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of equal treatment of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principleArticle 26 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and to members of their families moving within the Community, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to self-employed persons, to self-employed to self-employed persons, to self-employed to self-employed to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed and to self-employed in the self-employed in self-employed and to self-employed in the self-employed persons, to self-employed in the territory, to self-employed, to self-employed or to self-employed and to self-employed, to self-employed, to self-employed, to self-employed, to whomWith the exception of the application of Article 66, Article 8 and Titles IV, V and X shall cease to apply at the time when the federal phase of the national emergency plan, activated under the COVID-19 pandemic, is terminated. Art. 66. The King may, until 31 December 2025, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, declare provisions of Article 8 and of Titles IV, V and X to be fully or partially applicable to a disease other than that referred to in this law, provided that: 1° the disease is recognized by an inter- or supranational institution as pandemic on the basis of the criteria used by the World Health Organisation; 2° the disease has actual or potential consequences on the ground on which measures are adopted at national level.