Decision of the Government of the French Community of Special Forces No 35 derogating from various provisions relating to supplementary secondary vocational education, nursing department within the framework of the COVID-19 health crisis The Government of the French Community, having regard to the Decree of 17 March 2020 granting special powers to the Government in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, Article 1 (1) thereof, f); having regard to the Decree of 11 May 2017 concerning the fourth degree of supplementary secondary vocational training, nursing department; having regard to the urgent need to enable the French Community to respond before the end of the school year to the measures taken in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, pursuant to Article 1, § 1 (f) of the Decree of 17 March 2020 granting special powers to the Government in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic: - by organising in these exceptional circumstances the end of the school year for all pupils organized or subsidised in theWhereas it is necessary to submit to the administration a request for derogation for the organisation of traineeships during the winter and spring holidays for the first three years and the summer holidays for the first two years only for pupils enrolled in one of the first three years of the degree; whereas, until the end of their training, the pupils concerned have reached at least their first year; whereas it is appropriate to allow the class council in 2019-2020 to complete these missing hours after that date and thus to finalise the year between 1 February and 30 June 2021; whereas the class council in 2019-2020 should have the power in 2019-2020 to allow pupils from the third year who have not had the time to present their second session for 30 June 2020 to postpone this second session and to take a decision on the issue of the dispensation of the hospital's or hospital's hospital's hospital's treatment for the period between 1 February and 30 June 2021;In the light of the suspension of the courses decided upon by the Government following the COOVID pandemic, theIn that case, the school may, at the latest 10 working days before the date on which the test is to be carried out, formally inform the student whether he is not in the correct material conditions for the trial to be carried out, so that the school can propose an appropriate solution. Article 4. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1) (2) of the same decree, the obligation to organise in 2019-2020 practical tests for pupils of the first and second year of study shall be abolished. It shall be up to the organizing powers to decide whether or not to maintain these tests. If the practical tests are maintained, they may be organized in subsequent years for first and second years of study. They may be carried out at the end of the entire training period, provided that the pupils concerned have completed at least the first year of their training. In this case, the distribution of these tests by academic year referred to in paragraph 2 of the same article is not applicable.2019-2020, provided that they have passed at least for the first year. The student must have completed all these lessons of clinical education at the end of his training. Art. 9. This decision enters into force on the day it is signed. Art. 10. The Minister responsible for compulsory education is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 18 June 2020. The Minister-President, P.-Y. JEHOLET The Minister for Education, C. DESIR