Royal Decree No 20 concerning temporary measures in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity of care in the compulsory medical care insurance REPORT TO THE KONING Sire, I have the honour to present herewith a draft Royal Decree No 20 laying down temporary measures in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity of care in the compulsory medical care insurance. By Law of 27 March 2020 the legislator granted the King special powers to take measures in the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19. It concerns measures to compensate for the direct and indirect consequences of the COOVID-19 pandemic for compulsory insurance. In accordance with Article 2 of the Law of 27 March 2020 which authorizes the King to take measures in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (II) the draft decision to ensure access to the necessary conditions of insurance for COVID-19 pandemic or pandemic disease and the consequences thereof, which allows the King to take measures in the light of the condition of this condition of the patient.In order to protect the accessibility of patients, and to protect the companies simultaneously against unwanted and undesirable decisions, it is necessary, in particular, to apply for reimbursement of medical benefits, to apply for registration with a sickness fund or to apply for certain statutes, such as the right to the increased insurance scheme.The terms of the CGV 2020/073 note clearly show that it was intended to provide a suspension of time limits and not to interrupt: "In order to protect patient accessibility, and at the same time to protect companies from unintended and unwanted decisions, it is proposed, in these exceptional circumstances, to introduce an absolute clock-stop for all procedures with effect from 13 March 2020 at midnight for a period to be determined but limited. This method reduces the delay in decision-making to the minimum, without compromising the process itself or the responsibilities or powers within those processes.It is not possible, for example, for doctors and medical practitioners who have only a limited period of time, to submit the application for compensation for compulsory insurance or to transfer certain information. However, as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, it may not be possible to comply with those time limits and conditions, since non-urgent treatment should be postponed and caregivers have their hands full with the provision of urgent care which does not allow administrative obligations to take place in time. In order to avoid that patients receive no or lower reimbursement, it may be necessary to suspend or extend certain time limits provided for in the regulation or agreements, whenever possible, the adjustments of the time limits laid down by the law will be specified in a specific provision, but it seems appropriate to supplement them with a general provision in order to preserve the interests of all partners as far as possible, provided that the completeness of the analyses cannot be ensured under the present conditions.In order to ensure that decisions to be taken are not taken in such cases, there will also be a minimum of informal consultation with the sickness fund and the care provider of the material concerned.The provisions of Articles 4 to 18 have been drawn up in consultation with the partners on their question or after the representatives of the healthcare providers or the insurance institutions have contacted the RIZIV on the problems of continuity of necessary care in the context of the measures to reduce the spread of the virus. For each measure in question, virtual meetings have taken place with the professional organizations concerned (doctors, dentists, physiotherapists, logopedists, midwifes, hospital federations) and with the insurance institutions. For the measures relating to reduced irradiation in breast cancer patients and the special supervision of patients with COVID-19, a preparatory consultation has also taken place with a delegation of the Technical Medical Board.In addition, the care of patients infected with the virus requires an extraordinary effort. In order to meet these changed working conditions and to properly compensate for the efforts, Article 6 provides a series of new specific benefits for the care of intensive care and the specific COVID-19 departments. Article 6, § 1 provides a specific code identifying the COVID-19 patients in order to allow the new benefits in kind to be applied to intensive care and to reimburse the specific COVID-19 departments. A COVID-19 patient is defined in accordance with the case definition of Sciensano. The code 793800 is only intended for the identification of COVID-19 patients. That code allows for additional treatment to be applied to these patients for which the care is required for both physical and psychic purposes. A COVID-19 patient is defined in accordance with the case definition of Sciensano. The code 793800 is intended only for the identification of COVID-19 patients.Article 6, § 5 provides that these benefits in kind can only be charged to general hospitals. Article 7 includes the principles to be observed to provide care at a distance. Articles 8 to 13 provide for the creation of specific distance attacks as well as rules of application belonging to doctors, dentists and physiotherapists. Article 8 provides specific benefits in kind that allow doctors to perform a telephone triage ( § 1) of patients with symptoms of possible infection with COVID-19 and provide telephone advice ( § 2) to other patients with a view to maintaining continuity of care. The notion of telephone calls covers synchronised means of communication including video communication. Article 8, § 3, lays down the rules of application for these benefits in kind. Article 9 provides for specific benefits for psychiatrists and pediatricsychiaters. Patients with psychiatric or psychotherapeutic follow-up can only rarely suspend their treatment without serious risk to their mental health. The COVID-19 crisis makes it possible to continue to ensure the continuity of this kind of care during this period of time.Article 13 (1) provides for the introduction of two specific benefits in kind for telephone advice and, where appropriate, referral to a dental practice offered by the care provider taking into account all the instructions for care providers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Article 12 (1) provides for the introduction of two specific benefits in kind for telephone advice and possible referral. Article 12 (2) lays down the rules of application for these benefits. For the continuity of care and the improvement of the patient's health status, which will be necessary in a limited number of cases, Article 13 (1) provides for the introduction of two specific benefits in kind for telephone advice and possible referral.Article 21, § 1 and § 2 provide for the possibility of providing diabetes education via telephone or video communication because these benefits in kind may be provided to patients for whom these benefits in kind may be provided (diabetes patients and patients suffering from chronic renal insufficiency) are urgently necessary for an adequate treatment of their disease and cannot be postponed beyond the COVID-19 crisis period. However, in order to ensure that these benefits in kind are safe during the COVID-19 crisis period, without risk of contamination, the possibility of providing these dietic treatment via telephone or video communication is also provided for by means of video communications, although benefits in kind may be required for the purpose of ensuring adequate treatment of their disease and cannot be provided by means of telephone because a significant part of the target group does not have the possibility of video communication or is not sufficiently familiar with them.Article 24, § 1 to § 3, allows the centres accompanying patients suffering from the effects of female genital mutilation, to the transgender care centres and to the memory clinics to perform certain guidance sessions which the psychologists of those centres perform for the patients of those centres, through video communication during the COVID-19 crisis period, so that the continuity of care during the COVID-19 crisis period can be ensured and the benefits can be performed safely, without risk of contamination. Since qualitative counseling sessions by a psychologist are not possible by phone because the psychologist then cannot take account of the patient's body language, only counseling sessions are provided by video communication. Article 25, § 1 to § 3, allows the establishments "Clairs Vallons" and "Seapreventorium" to provide telephone or video communication to the patients of whom the normal rehabilitation program is interrupted during the COVID-19 crisis period.In order to ensure continuity of care during the COOVID-19 crisis period and to ensure the safe performance of benefits in kind, without risk of contamination.Although benefits in kind through video communication are likely to produce better results, it is also provided by telephone to exclude patients from the target group who do not have the possibility of video communication or who are not sufficiently familiar with it. Article 28 (1) to (5) allows the cognitive behavioural therapists who cooperate with the multidisciplinary diagnostic center for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome to perform the sessions cognitive behavioral therapy carried out by those cognitive behavioral therapists, during the COOVID-19 crisis period, to perform via video communication, so that the continuity of care during the COOVID-19 crisis period can be ensured and the benefits in kind of treatment carried out without risk of contamination by a psychologist cannot be taken into account by the patient's phone, only by means of video communication.In April 2020, on the basis of the global principles surrounding the establishment and financing of the switching care centres, this decision was taken to prevent too many people from being hospitalised or staying in hospital without actually needing hospital care, and thus to prevent further increases in the workload in the hospital. These structures are not intended to provide long-term care and are themselves set up for a limited period, depending on the length of time necessary to control the current health crisis. Only the authorities of the regions or communities can decide to open a switching care centre, and only after advice from the governor of the province where the opening of the switching care centre is being considered. To this end, it is also the duty of this government to assess with the owner or operator of the premises to make arrangements regarding the use of the premises, the use of the equipment, the availability of the equipment to which is not possible to the use of the equipment in the region, but also on the basis of the number of COVID-19 patients still in the hospital.The following situations: 1° the residence is too small to isolate the patient from the people with whom he lives together; 2° the elderly, persons with reduced immunity or suffering from chronic respiratory diseases, who live together with the patient and for whom no temporary alternative accommodation can be found to accommodate them; 3° the hygiene conditions in the home do not permit proper compliance with the recommendations of isolation, hygiene and distance; 4° the patient is not sufficiently self-reliant and cannot respect the recommended isolation or hygiene rules, even with support of cloak care or family members; 5° for a patient who is generally autonomous and who, for reasons of hospital admission, requires temporary rehabilitation care (including after long stay on an Intensive care service) which in a home situation cannot be given to the patient because of the lack of necessary equipment or disability of the home. The determination of a patient is made in consultation with the patient and the structures in the first line of this situation which can be confirmed by the patient, in particular condition of the patient's health insurance or health care services in the home situation.In the absence of the necessary equipment, nurses and caregivers in a specific manner and within the conditions laid down by this Decision, all other medical benefits for these patients shall be reimbursed in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 31 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.As far as doctors are concerned, the following fees are provided for in the draft: - For follow-up, supervision and care by a doctor during the day: reimbursement of 80,34 euro per hour performed. Maximum 8 hours per day per group of 30 patients. - For the availability by 1 doctor evening and at night: a fee of 6,51 euro per hour. - Cumul with consultations and supervision fees are excluded from the nomenclature. As regards nurses and care professionals: - For the follow-up, supervision and care provision is provided for a maximum of 6 FTE (of which 4 nurses and 2 care professionals) per group of 30 patients. This corresponds to a maximum of 6 x 38 hours per week: 228 hours. - This allowance is paid by 47,25 euro per hour for nurses and 34.96 euros.This information is collected centrally by the Federal Public Service Public Health and is communicated via the Riziv to the National Intermutualist College. Article 42 provides that the health care providers who provide benefits in kind in the switching care centre fall under the responsibility of the switching care centre. The switching care centre ensures the status of the necessary insurance relating to, inter alia, occupational liability and occupational accident insurance. Article 43 provides that on the basis of the "recognition" received by the Riziv because of the participating entities, on the website will be published the list of the centres which, if they respect the provisions of this Decision, can invoice the benefits. These centres will be notified to them; they should not conclude a specific agreement with the Riziv. Chapter 2. Triage and reduction centres The Articles 44 to 52 regulate the temporary financing of the triage and reduction centres. The Sciensano directive of 17 March 2020 lays down a procedure for patients with suspicion of COVID-19 infection. If the doctor considers that a clinical examination of the infection is essential, he cannot take into account of the circumstances, he is able to carry out of the material himself or himself.In addition, there are medical coordinators responsible for the daily organisation, the planning, the distribution of doctors, etc... the physical examinations carried out by doctors and the triage and purchasing centres can call nurse and administrative support.The costs associated with the setting up and running of these specific structures are considerable and are borne by the compulsory medical care insurance scheme.About the introduction of a funding for the triage and reduction centres, Article 45 lays down the procedure for assigning an identification number, necessary for the purpose of the billing of the centres in the National Committee on Doctors-Sickness Funds and on 24 March 2020 with the representatives of the insurance institutions in the National Committee on Doctors-Sickness Funds.Article 51 lays down the flat-rate amounts to which the triage posts are entitled for coordination by the medical coordinator (EUR 80,34 per hour) and administrative support (EUR 34,96 per hour). A maximum of 12 hours per day may be charged, regardless of the number of medical coordinators, nurses or administrative assistants present in the triage and purchasing centre. This article also fixes the flat-rate amount for nurse support (EUR 47,25 per hour). A maximum of 12 hours per day may be charged, regardless of the number of nurses present in the triage and purchasing centre. The King is also authorized to provide a financial intervention for the activities to be determined by Him in a triage and purchase centre and to determine the detailed rules for such financial intervention. Article 52 lays down the payment modalities. Chapter 3. Weekly Waiting Articles 53 to 56 regulate the temporary and exceptional financing of the GPs's waiting posts during the nights of the week. In normal circumstances these waiting posts during the week.The RIZIV has consulted on these measures with representatives of the sector in the Agreement Committee on Nursing Insurance Institutions on 1 and 7 April 2020. These measures have also been discussed in the framework of the consultation between RIZIV and insurance institutions on 7 April 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic has several implications for home care. Home nurses have to take special protective measures to protect themselves and their patients from contamination. In addition, nurse practices sometimes deliberately reduce essential care to free up capacity in patients with a COVID-19 related care demand. To take account of these new COVID-19 context, 2 measures are being developed in consultation with the sector and insurance institutions, which apply during the COVID-19 crisis: 1) Follow-up and supervision in patients with a COVID-19 related problems 2) Valorization of nurse during COVID-19 related care.Article 61 provides that no remuneration supplements may be charged. Chapter 2. Valorisation of nurses during the COVID-19 measures: costs and use of protective material Article 62 describes the motivation for introducing an additional amount to be added to certain medical benefits in kind. Article 63 specifies the additional amount to be charged and the manner in which the various specific pseudo-codes created and their conditions of application shall be:The risk management group on the detection of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on the basis of the scientific advice of Sciensano on the use of immunological tests in the framework of COVID-19 pandemic of 3 April 2020; Whereas the limited capacity and scarcity of test material; Whereas the interests of public health in order to provide the limited tests to the most needy groups; Whereas the limitations of the tests and the associated risks; Article 65 provides an overview of all measures: 1° there is a refund of clinical biology testing for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus and for the detection of antigens of the above virus under certain conditions; 2° there is no personal contribution to these tests; 3° there is a ban on the charging of tests to patients; 5° there is a temporary prohibition on the calculation of serological tests.In addition, only tests carried out in approved laboratories complying with the conditions laid down by Sciensano regarding quality control and also complying with certain biological safety requirements are reimbursed. In order to follow the evolution of the pandemic in Belgium, the results of the tests must be sent to the Epidemiology Department of Sciensano. In order to use the scarce tests correctly and rationally with the most needy groups in Belgium, an application form must be attached to a sample, signed by a doctor, containing at least the following information concerning the clinical conditions in which the test is requested: - patient identification and prescriber; - test requested. - Whether the test is carried out within the test guidelines which are published at the time of the steel extraction on the website of Sciensano. - Whether the test is exceptionally carried out in case of clearly identifiable clinical necessity in patients It is also recommended that this form includes the clinical situation, whether it is a care provider or risk patient and the hospital status.These tests will be carried out and reimbursed through the test platform organised by and with the cooperation of the federal government and federated entities. Article 67 provides that there is no personal share for the rightholders. Article 68 imposes a ban on wage supplements. Article 69 imposes a ban on the charging of tests to the compulsory health insurance or to the patient if they do not comply with the conditions of application set out in Article 66 (3). This is necessary in order to apply the scarce tests and the limited capacity to patients with the greatest risks, to monitor the quality of the tests and to protect patients from unnecessary medical costs. For example, testing is carried out outside the test guidelines and without any obvious clinical need in the case of risk patients carried out in a laboratory which is not included in the Sciensano list or which has been carried out with test materials not approved by the FAGG or Sciensano. Article 70 imposes a temporary ban on the calculation of serological tests for the detection of antibodies against the use of the SAR-CIR to be carried out by theThe use of the serological tests published on the website of Sciensano may be withdrawn from this prohibition and a refund can be provided by the King. The King shall determine the target groups and the conditions for reimbursement of the screening tests appearing on a list drawn up by Sciensano. The value of the provision is set at EUR 9.60. TITLE 7. - PROTECTION MEASURES Article 71 provides that the King - for the categories of caregivers which He designates and under the conditions He lays down - may provide a temporary financial intervention for the costs of special protection measures and materials, within the framework of the COOVID 19 pandemic. The rightholders may not be charged any additional amount, of any kind, by the caregivers in respect of the costs of special protection measures and materials, irrespective of the convention status, shall be entitled to the end of the time.The Molecular Tests will be charged from 1 March 2020 on, the antigen tests will be charged from 1 April 2020 on. The provisions concerning the protection measures will have effect from 4 May 2020. The authorization to the King to provide a financial intervention for the acts to be determined by Him in a triage and reduction centre, will take effect on a date to be determined by the King. I have the honour to be Sire, Van Your Majesty, the very respectful and very faithful servant, The Minister of Social Affairs and Health, M. DE BLOCK 13 MAY 2020. - Royal Decree No 20 granting temporary measures in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic and to ensure the continuity of care in the compulsory medical care of FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and hereafter are given theOn the proposal of the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health and on the opinion of the Ministers meeting in the Council, Have We decided and decide: TITLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1. Subject to any conflicting mention in this Decision or any other legal or regulatory provision adopted after 13 March 2020, the time limits provided for by or under the law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with the exception of the time limits provided for in Section XVI and Section XXII of Chapter V of Title III, Titles IV, V, Vbis, Chapter III of Title VI and Chapters II, III and IV of Title VII of the Act, suspended from 13 March 2020 to a date to be determined by the King in a generic manner or for some of those time limits, may be taken without the legal or regulatory measures being prescribed.OXYCONCENTRATOR, DEVILBISS DRIVE 525 KS/ OXYCONCENTRATOR FIXE, DEVILBISS DRIVE 525 KS (SOS OXYGENE Benelux) 31,80 31,80 0,00 A FIXED SOXYGENE Benelux 31,80 31,80 0,00 0,00 A FIXED SOXYGENE Benelux 31,80 31,80 0,00 A FIXED SOXYGENE CONCENTRATOR, PLATINUM 9 INVACARE/ OXYCONCENTRATEUR FIXE, PLATINUM 9INVACARE (SOS OXYGENE Benelux) 31,80 31,80 0,00 3° In § 2, point A, 2°, a) is supplemented as follows:(SOS OXYGENE Benelux) 5,51 0,00 0,00 A FIXED SURFACE CONCENTRATOR, PERFECTO2 INVACARE/OXYCONCENTRATEUR FIXE, PERFECTO2,INVACARE (SOS OXYGENE Benelux) 5,51 0,00 0,00 A FIXED SURFACE CONCENTRATOR, PLATINUM 9 INVACARE/OXYCONCENTRATEUR FIXE PLATINUM 9, INVACARE (SOS OXYGENE Benelux) 5,51 5,51 0,00 0,00 0,00 TITLE 3. - CONTINUCKETEIT OF ZORG CHAPTER 1. - General provisions Art. 4. § 1. The benefits in kind shall be indicated by a ranking number prior to the definition of the provision.The classification of medical benefits in kind referred to in the Annex to the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 laying down the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind in respect of compulsory medical care and benefits; 2° 'the nomenclature' in Articles 19 to 28 of this Decision: Royal Decree of 10 January 1991 determining the classification of rehabilitation benefits provided in Article 23 (2) second paragraph of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, fixing the fees and prices of those benefits in kind and fixing the amount of the insurance allowance in those fees and prices. CHAPTER 2.The rules for the provision of 211982 are the same as those for the provision of 211363 in Article 13 of the Nomenclature. The benefits in kind 211960 and 211982 can only be charged to COVID-19 patients on an approved function of intensive care as well as to the supplementary beds for intensive care which are passed on daily to the FPS Public Health. The provision of Article 13 (2), 10° of the Nomenclature is suspended. The benefits in kind provided for in Article 13 (1) (B) of the Nomenclature and benefits in kind 211960 and 211982 are also chargeable to the additional beds intensive care (without service code 49) which are passed on daily to the FPS Public Health. § 3.The benefits in kind 211061, 212063, 214060 and 214141 can only be charged on the non-intensive care beds specifically reserved for COVID-19 patients. § 4. Provision for supervision of a hospitalized COVID-19 patient: 597984 Additional fees for supervision of the hospitalized COVID-19 patient, per day C 20 The provision of 597984 can be charged by a doctor-specialist only once per day with the usual fees for supervision by a doctor-specialist other than the doctor-specialist who applies for supervision of the hospitalized COVID-19 patient.The doctor must be able to identify his patient clearly and record in the patient's file the telephone contact, the advice provided and the nature of the documents that have been delivered. § 2. Continuity of care: 101135 Advice for the continuity of care N 10 On the advice given to the patient in order to ensure continuity of care, one can understand a patient in treatment with the doctor, who for motivated reasons cannot meet the doctor in view of the advice given in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. The doctor must be able to identify his patient clearly and record his patient in the file of the patient in contact, the reasoned reason for his advice to be given to the patient in accordance with the advice given to the doctor.The medical homes, also using the code 101835 for patients who are not enrolled in a medical home. For patients registered at a medical home who receive telephone advice during the organized general practitioner's watch service from a doctor who does not work in a medical home, the paid fee, will not be recovered from the medical home where the patient is enrolled. Art. 9. Care by a psychiatrist § 1. Advice: 101872 Advice in view of a possible urgent referral of the patient to a mobile 2a team or a psychiatric emergency service N 10 The provision of 101872 requires the telephone history of the patient. The provision 101872 can only be charged once per patient. § 2. Adult, child and youth psychiatry 