Decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 47 concerning the support programme for operators in the tourism sector in the context of the health crisis COVID-19 REPORT TO THE WALSE GOVERNMENT I. General overview 1. As a result of the lockdown measures adopted by the National Security Council (hereinafter referred to as NVR) to combat COVID-19, the Walloon Government took several initiatives to support the economic sectors which members have ceased or delayed their activity. The general policy statement of the Walloon Government 2019-2024 states that: "Tourism, or for leisure or for business, offers numerous opportunities for economic development in different degrees. In order to better exploit Wallonia's tourist assets, the Government intends to: - Consider tourism as a full economic sector producing wealth and providing a lot of employment in Wallonia'.In addition, from now on no one is allowed to go to his second stay;... Gites, campsites, guest accommodations, airbnb and furnished holiday homes are tourist establishments that should close;.. Hotels may remain open to provide accommodation for essential trips (i.e. not for tourist stays), without possibility of access to a bar, common rooms or recreational spaces; the restaurants of these hotels have to close down, except when they can place the meal in the room. Furthermore, in the case of the aviation sector, the airport of Charleroi has been closed since 25 March, Ryanair has been suspended since 24 March, and Brussels Airlines has been suspended since 20 March. Finally, the European borders have been closed since 17 March. This gives rise to an estimate of the turnover of the hotels lost in March and to take place in the following May.On the basis of these guidelines, the proposals were drawn up on the basis of the following guidelines: - to grant financial support to creditors and ancillarys in the short term, the perimeter being determined on the basis of the tourism activities carried out; - to reduce the administrative burden of handling the application files submitted both to the Directorate-General for Tourism, which will manage them in accordance with the rules of Article 5.D, § 1, 1°, of the Walloon Tourism Code1, as well as to the beneficiaries as low as possible; - to ensure budgetary control by projection mechanisms (cursors and maximum amounts) and the determination of allocated budgets.The measures and campaigns for the promotion of tourism in their area of activity Article 1 aims to strengthen, within the framework of the revival of the tourism sector following the sanitary crisis caused by COVID-19. Article 594.D of the Walloon Tourism Code provides for a subsidy rate of the tourism houses in their area of activity for the promotion of tourism in their area of activity of 40% or 50% (in the case of actions involving at least two houses for tourism together) with a maximum amount to be fixed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 595.D. The fixing of a subsidy rate shall de facto have a financial contribution in respect of the houses for tourism which are in proportion to the percentages of non-subsidised expenditure incurred. They must therefore have the financial capacity to cover these amounts in the form of own revenue or other financial participations.However, it should be noted that the organisation of event-related activities with a regional tourist destination involves numerous other financial commitments in addition to the promotion, mainly long before the date of the programmed event (booking of the venue, brewers, hygiene, artist performance, etc.). However, it should be noted that the organisation of event-related activities with a regional tourist destination involves numerous other financial commitments in addition to the promotion, mainly for the period prior to the date of the programmed event (booking of the venue, brewers, hygiene, artists' performance, etc.) and that this financial support mechanism takes the form of a subsidy entered into for each event prior to the date of the programmed event.The purpose of the measure is to ensure that the organisers of events have sufficient cash resources to compensate their suppliers.The award of the grant is therefore not linked to the condition of the prior payment of the suppliers, but that payment, which may be made later, is indispensable.Section 3 provides for the conditions for the grant of the grant.The criteria for taking into account the event-related activity with a tourist impact are the same as the criteria for the application, by the administrative case law of the Directorate General for Tourism, for the optional grant of the promotion.Thus, it is also eligible for the measure, the operators who organise event-related activities with a tourist destination and a regional range.The criterion of time-bound return is determining.The activities of which the cultural, sporting, environmental or heritage-oriented nature of the event are essentially are excluded from the scope of the scheme.In the event that the texts confer a power of discretion on the subsidising authority, it is, on the contrary, a discretionary power on the market (...) (J. De Beys, B. Gors et Ch. Thiebaut, 