The Flemish Government's decision of 17 December 2010 concerning several urgent measures under COOVID-19 for the student counseling centres, the teaching staff, the academy's part-time art education, the adult education centres and the basic education centres amending the decision of the Flemish Government of 5 June 2020 granting additional operating budget for the schools of ordinary and exceptional basic and secondary education for the purposes of the measures taken and related additional expenses incurred by the schools against the dissemination of COOVID-19 m.a. to the international legal bases This decision is based on: - the decree concerning part-time art education of 9 March 2018, Article 83 and 84; - the decree of the Flemish Government concerning the provision of training, the structure, organisation and financing of the Royal Beiaard School of Jef Denyn in Mechelen of 4 May 2018, Article 8; - the decree concerning the student guidance in primary education, secondary education and the student guidance centres of 27 April 2018; - the decree of 15 June 2007 concerning adult education, Article 91; - the decree of 30 October 2020 to take into account the provisional measures in respect of the temporary education periods of 25 May 2018 and the formal education of 25th year.This decision is based on the following motives: - the COOVID-19 pandemic expands exponentially and has a major impact on the academies of part-time art education, the CLBs, the adult education centres, the teaching staff and the internships. In order to continue the provision of education in safe conditions and to guarantee the right to learn for the students, some urgent measures must be taken. - In the context of the outbreak of COOVID-19, the academies have made a lot of extra costs to ensure a safe school environment for the pupils so that they can learn and teach in a safe environment. A maximum (hand) hygiene is essential to prevent further spread and new outbreaks of infectious diseases such as COVID-19 to be maximum. Furthermore, academies must also invest in the additional polishing of classrooms and studios, the frequent cleaning of worktables, machines and shared instruments.The regular replacement scheme allows for only replacement from the absence of 10 working days. Especially for small schools, this is problematic. When a significant part of the teaching staff has to stay at home, the organization quickly becomes very difficult. In September and October, therefore, some schools closed their doors because of staff shortage, even after exhaustion of the teacher platform and the short replacements. Also educational internats are essential for the organization of schools and they are indispensable for the pupil who is on an education ternate to fill in his or her school and study choice. Educational internats play an important role in the school career of vulnerable students. Internats suffer from the quarantine measures that i.f.v. a testing or a positive testing sometimes multiple (full-time) educators in quarantine are required. Of course, this causes problems for the supervision and reception in the in the internate, which is often only a few educators. In the internates a replacement is possible only if a staff member is absent for more than ten days.The total additional budget of up to 2.572.141 euros. Article 4. The amount of 2.572.141 euros shall be allocated as follows: - An amount of 2,522.141 euros for the execution of the contact research contracts. The amount shall be allocated to the CLBs on the basis of their share in the new framework. - An amount of 50,000 euros for the adaptation of the electronic data registration system LARS in the framework of the contact research of pupils and staff. Each CLB shall receive a lump sum of 862.07 euros. Art. 5, within the authorisation given to the Flemish Government in Article 91 of the Decree of 15 June 2007 on adult education shall be allocated to the basic education centres for the purpose of calculating the amount of 255.994,2 euros for the additional operating resources granted to the Flemish Government in order to compensate for the additional expenditure against the dissemination of COVID-19 from 1 March to 31 December 2020.The first paragraph of Article III (1) of the Code of Conduct of 28 October 2016, together with the first paragraph of Article 1 of the Code of Conduct of the same codification; the third subparagraph of Article 1 of the Code of Conduct of Special Education referred to in Section 1 of Subsection 2 of the same codification; the fourth subparagraph of Article 6 of the same codification; the second subparagraph of Article 2 of the Code of Conduct of the Institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall, for the purchase of mouth masks for staff and internals, for the purchase of the necessary polishing material, for the use of additional polishing staff and for the purchase of other materials relating to hygiene and safety measures, such as disinfectants, chastity products and other necessary hygiene infrastructure, be laid down in Article III (1) of the Code of Conduct of 28 October 2016, together with the amount specified in paragraph 1 of Article 1, by the number of internals on the date of 1 February 2020 or by the corresponding counting period of 1 January 2020.The reception of internals outside the normal opening of the institution or the reception of internals of another institution during the period 27 March to 30 June 2020. The internals referred to in paragraph 1 are young people or young people who, because of their limitation in combination with the capacity of the family, are in a vulnerable position from their own institution or from another institution which, for organisational reasons, cannot take care of the reception themselves. The amount made available to the institution in Article 1, 1°, and 3°, is EUR 100 per day per internal day on which the internal is present. From 16 November 2020 to 31 March 2021, all schools for ordinary and exceptional basic and secondary education may make a regular dispatch for short replacements necessary to keep the school open, when the school is in danger. All establishments of teaching staff and child carers are eligible for admission.This decision will enter into force on the date of its adoption. Article 7 and 8 of this decision will have effect with effect from 27 March 2020. Art. 11. The Flemish Minister responsible for Education is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 13 November 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister for Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand, B. WEYTS