This decision of the Flemish Government to grant additional operating budget to the schools of ordinary and exceptional basic and secondary education for the purposes of the measures taken and associated additional expenses incurred by the schools against the dissemination of COVID-19 Legal basis (s) This decision is based on: - the Decree of basic education of 25 February 1997, Article 76. - Decision of the Flemish Government to undertake the codification of secondary education of 17 December 2010, Article 37. Formal requirement(s) The following formal requirement(s) is fulfilled: - the inspection of Finance has given its opinion on 2 June 2020 - the Flemish Minister for Finance and budget has given its agreement on 5 June 2020 No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, applying Article 3, § 1 of the Laws to the State, coordinated on 12 January 1973. There is an urgency because by the corona-edemic the schools in basic and secondary education at the start of the additional operating costs in respect of cleaning, disinfection, mouth masking and hygienic infrastructure for the consequences of a civil emergency to the public health, namely:VLAAMSE GOVERNMENT DECISION: Article 1. The school management of ordinary and special basic and secondary education is granted for the school year 2019 - 2020 additional operating budget of up to 24,508,000 euros. Of this, 16,622,000 euros is earmarked for primary education and 7,886,000 euros for secondary education. Art. 2. This additional budget is allocated for the purchase of mouth masks for staff of primary and secondary education and pupils of special education, for the purchase of the necessary cleaning material, for the use of additional brush staff and for the purchase of other materials relating to hygiene and safety measures. Such as disinfectants, cleaning products and other necessary hygienic infrastructure. If an infection, or suspicion of contamination, is established at a school, the procedure as included in the CLB's rotational diseases will be followed.budget is used as compensation for the facility company for the schools that use the mouth masks and hand gel made available to the schools free of charge via the facility company. Art. 6. The Flemish Minister responsible for Education is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 5 June 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister for Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand, B. WEYTS