Decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 27 on the support of research and development in Wallonia in the framework of the temporary framework of State aid measures to support the economy in the current context of the widely distributed COVID-19 epidemic The Walloon Government, having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, Articles 20 and 87 (1); having regard to the decree of 17 March 2020 granting special powers to the Walloon Government in the context of the health crisis COVID-19; having regard to the temporary framework of State aid measures to support the economy in the current context of the widely distributed COVID-19 epidemic c(2020) 1863; having regard to the report, made pursuant to Article 3, 2°, of the Decree of 11 April 2014 implementing the resolutions of the United Nations Conference on Women in Beijing in September 1995 and integrating the gender dimension into the whole of regional policies,Whereas, in order to slow down and reduce the spread of the virus, it is necessary to recommend immediately the measures taken to maintain public order so that their effectiveness can be met as quickly as possible; whereas, in the light of the urgency of the situation, it is in the interests of the COVID-19 sanitary crisis to ensure that it affects the health and life of the Walloon population; whereas it is necessary to find solutions to the problem of controlling the COVID-19 sanitary crisis, in particular through the development of treatments and vaccines;For the purpose of developing new products, processes or services, or to substantially improve existing products, processes or services, it includes the creation of components for complex systems and may also include the construction of prototypes in a laboratory environment or in an environment with simulated interfaces to existing systems, as well as pilot lines, where necessary for industrial research and in particular for the validation of generic technologies.For the purposes of this Decision: 1° "small enterprise" shall mean any company established as a trading company which, unless otherwise specified, has at least one establishment in Wallonia and which is subject to the definition of small or micro-enterprise listed in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, shall not be regarded as an undertaking within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty.The Government may grant to it or to them a subsidy in the form of a call for proposals, on the basis of the classification of the projects proposed by the panel of the call based on the scientific, technical, economic, financial and sustainable development criteria referred to in the call; 2° or on the basis of the scientific, technical, economic, financial and environmental assessment of the project which the Government can carry out alone or assisted by external experts; 2° the eligible expenditure covered by the grant shall be: 1° the staff expenditure relating to the researchers, technicians and other auxiliary staff in so far as they are used for the execution of the project; 2° the costs relating to the instruments and equipment, to the extent and as long as they are used for the execution of the project; if those instruments and equipment are not used for the execution of the project during their entire life, only the depreciation costs calculated in accordance with the good accounting practice which correspond to the duration of the project;For the execution of an experimental development project submitted by one or more undertakings, the Government may grant to it or to them: 1° either within the framework of a call for the submission of projects, on the basis of the classification of the projects proposed by the panel in accordance with the scientific, technical, economic, employment, financial and sustainable development criteria referred to in the call; 2° or on the basis of the scientific, technical, economic, employment, financial and environmental assessment of the project which the Government can carry out alone or assisted by external experts.For each research project for which the amount of aid exceeds 2 000 000 for a small or medium-sized enterprise, the proportion of the aid is equal to 1 60 for a large enterprise. The amount of the aid, expressed as a percentage of the eligible expenditure before taxes or other charges, may be reduced to 1 80 for a small or medium-sized enterprise, to 1 80 for a large enterprise, to 1 80 for a small or medium-sized enterprise, to 2° 60 for a large enterprise.If the project, which has been described as successful, does not include the total amount of aid to be repaid, in addition to the amount of aid received as an advance, plus a proportion of the profit which is proportionate to the extent to which it has deviated from the commercial objectives which have been described as successful. Article 16. During the exploitation of the project results, the undertaking shall be exempt from continuing to repay the advance if the following two conditions are met: 1° it shall refrain from taking advantage of that use and shall inform the Government of any sums which it has to repay during the calendar year in which it declares its decision on objective grounds; 2° it shall transfer to the Walloon Region or to any entity designated by the latter any other entity an aid to which it is liable to repay during the calendar year in which it is to repay its project. The exemption resulting from paragraph 1 shall apply to the commercial rights in respect of the results of the project in accordance with Article 17.Art. 22. Any eligible expenditure intended by this Decision may at the same time be covered by a form of aid intended by this Decision and by one or more other forms of aid of a foreign, international or supranational public authority. In that case, all forms of aid shall be considered for compliance with the maximum intensity provided for in this Decision without prejudice to specific rules on intensity resulting from international or supranational agreements. Art. 23. An undertaking in difficulty on 31 December 2019 shall not be eligible for the aid provided for in this Decision. CHAPTER IV. - Evaluation criteria Section 1. - Innovating character of the project Art. 24. The innovative character of the project shall be assessed in relation to the socio-economic needs of the Walloon Region. Section 3. - Valorisation of innovation Art. 26. When the project relates to activities of industrial research or experimental development, the ability of the promotor for the purpose of its activities shall be assessed in accordance with Article 25.Where the project relates to industrial research or experimental development activities, the plan shall contain the information enabling it to assess the financial capacity of the undertaking to carry out the activities carefully and to use the expected results. If necessary, the accounting and bank certificates to confirm the data of the financial plan may be requested. Article 30. The clear degree of risk of the project shall be assessed in detail. This degree may be specified in relation to the cost of the project in relation to the company's turnover, the time for adjusting the new process or product, the expected benefits against the costs of the project or the likelihood of failure. Art. 32. When the project relates to industrial research or experimental development, the impact of the research project on employment shall be evaluated. The impact assessment shall be directed to the employment created or retained as a result of the research project and shall take account of the risks inherent to the research.The Board shall, in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 36 of this Decision, inform the Board of Appeal of the decision taken by the Board of Appeal in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 35. For each project, a notice of receipt shall be sent to the promoter within the five calendar days, indicating the date of receipt and the coordinates of a contact person. For each project, only the information communicated in response to a request from the Administration in the context of the assessment work shall be taken into consideration.For the purpose of applying the application, an application shall be submitted to the Commission within five calendar days from the date of receipt of the notification of the application and the date of receipt of the application.Article 44. For each project for which the grant is less than EUR 150,000, the Administration shall address the reasoned proposal to the Minister. For each project for which the grant is equal to or greater than EUR 150,000, the reasoned proposal shall be examined by a college before it is sent to the Minister. The College shall be composed of at least two members of the Administration and one representative of the Minister. The College shall, if necessary, apply the proposal for a reasoned decision and shall forward it to the Minister. Within two weeks of receipt of the proposal, the Minister shall submit a statement of principle to the Administration, which shall inform the promoter thereof to the Minister. Within two weeks of receipt of the principal decision of the Minister, the promoter may submit to the Administration a statement of the reasons for the reopening of the file.(b) scientific and technical reports; 2° reports on the exploitation of the activity covered by the subsidy; 2° reports on the use of the activity covered by the subsidy; 2° reports on the use of the results of the activity covered by the concession;The rate applicable to the first day of the month of the award decision shall be the rate applicable to the grant or refundable advance Art. 53. The promoter shall, at the request of the Administration, repay the difference between the amounts paid and the amounts accepted by the Administration after verification of the justification of the expenditure: 1° on suspension or withdrawal of the grant or refundable advance; 2° on withdrawal of the grant or refundable advance; 3° on termination of the activities covered by the grant, Art. 54. At the request of the Administration, the promoter shall, in whole or in part, pay back to the Walloon Region the difference between the amounts paid and the amounts accepted by the Administration after verification of the justification of the expenditure shall be taken into account only if that difference exceeds the part of the grant or refundable advance in respect of the eligible expenditure for the next three months. Art. 55.In all cases of withdrawal referred to in paragraph 1, the Walloon Region shall terminate the payment of the grant or the repayable advance.Article 62. Any document or information which an entity communicates to the Government pursuant to its obligations of a beneficiary who is eligible for a concession under this Decision shall be secret within the meaning of Article 6 (2) 2° of the Decree of 30 March 1995 on Public Administration to the extent that the entity indicates that the document or information bears that characteristic. CHAPTER IX. - Final provisions Art. 63. The terms of this Decision shall be suspended annually between 16 July and 15 August 2020. When a period referred to in this Decision expires on a Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday, it shall be extended to the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. Art. 64. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 February 2020 and shall end on 31 December 2020. Art. 65. The Minister of Research and Innovation shall be responsible for the execution of this Decision.