Decision of the Walloon Government implementing Article 47/17a of the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health in respect of the Protocol for the implementation of Phase 1.a.4 of the COOVID 19 vaccination programme for adults as regards first-line aid and first-line care The Walloon Government, having regard to the Walloon Social Action and Health Code, and in particular Article 47/17a of the Walloon Government of special powers No 68 of 16 December 2020 inserting an Article 47/17a into the Walloon Social Action and Health Code relating to the vaccination of adults against COVID-19; having regard to the proposal for a Protocol implementing phase 1.a.4. of the COOVID 19 vaccination programme for adults as regards primary aid and primary care, of the Walloon Cell COVID-19 and the Walloon Agency of Health, Handicap and Families, received on 3 February 2021;Whereas on 11 March 2020 WHO labelled the coronavirus COVID-19 as a pandemic; whereas on 16 March 2020 WHO continued to raise its threat level for the coronavirus COVID-19 on European territory and in Belgium; whereas, in view of the urgency of the need and the health risk posed by the coronavirus COVID-19 to the highest degree for the Belgian population; whereas, in order to slow down and limit the spread of the virus, it is necessary immediately to recommend the measures taken in respect of public health which appear to be indispensable on the territory of the country concerned; whereas the urgency and the health risk posed by the coronavirus COVID-19 to the Belgian population should be taken into account; whereas, in order to delay and restrict the spread of the virus, it is necessary to recommend immediately the measures taken in respect of public health; whereas it is necessary to ensure that the protection of all the territory of the country in question;Having regard to the Act of 22 December 2020 concerning various measures relating to rapid antigen testing and to the recording and processing of data relating to vaccinations in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and in particular Article 11 thereof; having regard to the Royal Decree of 24 December 2020 concerning the registration and processing of data relating to vaccinations against COVID-19; having regard to the decision of the Interministerial Conference of 3 December 2020; whereas vaccination has been phased out, taking into account the available doses; whereas priority groups had therefore to be established, in consultation with each sub-region and the federal government; whereas vaccination in phase 1.a.4. relates to health professionals under Royal Decree No 78 as well as to health professionals in the field of assistance exposed to COVID-19 by their activities with risk groups; whereas professional persons in the first line with these risk groups are also vaccinated in the first instance, since they are an infection carrier for risk groups and that the logic of vaccination is to be protected in the same phase; whereas this Protocol also includes the principle of the principle of reciprocity of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of Article of Article 1 of Article 1.Protocol for the implementation of phase 1.a.4 of the adult vaccination programme against COVID-19, as regards first-line aid and primary care. The main principles of the Belgian vaccination strategy against COVID-19 are the following: The Interministerial Conference on Public Health of 11 November 2020 established the main principles underlying the Belgian vaccination strategy: - Vaccine coverage with a target of 70% of the population; - Determine the priority groups on the basis of scientific advice; - Free vaccination on a voluntary basis for each citizen; - Co-financing of the joint vaccination programme by the federal government and the sub-areas. These decisions are linked to the following conditions and data: - Massive vaccination campaigns involving the vaccines in multidose vials, to be served the same day; - Belgium provides one or more effective and safe vaccines against COVID-19. - The capacity of the Belgian health system for the gradual and effective distribution and vaccination of the population, supported by the authorities for public health COVID-19, established by the Interfederal Task Force on 16 November 2020, provides one or more effective and safe vaccines against COVID-19.The CoviD-19 vaccination is therefore phased out in function of these priorities. The fourth group, which is identified as a priority by the Interministerial Conference on Public Health in phase 1.a.4 focuses on first-line aid and first-line care. The protocol developed in this document aims only at phase 1.a.4. as regards first-line aid and primary care. The vaccines to be administered at this stage are the Pfizer vaccine and the Moderna vaccine (vaccines of type mRNA), as well as the AstraZeneca vaccine (vaccines of type adenovirus), which are known in the writing of this procedure. The use of another vaccine means that a specific administration recommendation is issued by the FAGG. The protocol refers to:In the order and registration system of the SOP (Standard operating procedures), drawn up by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, in accordance with the rules previously communicated by the governments. Phasering of the actions in phase 1.a.4A. Joint organisation of the distribution of the Pfizer, Moderna and Astrazeneca vaccines by the Interfederal Task Force and the Walloon Region Nineteen hospital hubs, equally distributed throughout the territory of the French language area in general hospitals which have a cooling capacity at -80°C for the Pfizer vaccines, are designated on the basis of their storage capacity and with their consent, as well as two main centres in Ronquières and Bierset. The Moderna institutions have a cooling capacity at -20°C. The Astrazeneca institutions have a cooling capacity at 2 to 8°C. The total number of vaccines to be ordered at the central Hub, is determined by the sum of the staff in the primary care and primary aid.The vaccine bottle of 5 ml allows 10 doses of 0.5 ml to be used immediately. The thawed Moderna vaccine is fragile, it should not be shaken. E. Preparation of the Astrazeneca vaccine The vaccine doctor, who performs the vaccination, takes over the SOPs: the vaccine bottle is taken from the refrigerator (2 to 8° C) and within 6 hours the vaccination is started. No solution is required, each bottle of 5 ml allows 10 vaccinations of 0.5 ml to be used immediately in the syringe, the vaccine bottle of the SOPs: the vaccine bottle is taken from the refrigerator (2 to 8° C) and within 6 hours the vaccine is started.The vaccination will take place in the vaccination center allocated to the candidate via the appointment tool, based on the zip code of the residence of the applicant to be vaccinated. H. Invitation The applicant to be vaccinated signs up to the appointment tool after having received an invitation letter by post, linked to an invitation by e-mail or SMS if this information is available. Invitation both the code to receive the vaccination and two vaccination places, pre-determined by the zip code of his residence. Via the appointment tool the candidate chooses the place, the date and the hours for his vaccination. If the candidate does not enter the invitation, he will be referred to the following phases 1B or 2 of the vaccination campaign. I. Communication and type evaluation: A general communication about COVID-19, the vaccination process is made available in advance to the care providers in the first-line care and first-line aid. This communication consists mainly of the following: - There is in visual information and/or dialogue support tools (worker or federation of their employees - or group of employees - to the hospital - to the hospital - to the hospital - to the hospital - to the hospital - to the hospital - to the hospital - to be carried out on the basis of theThe vaccine waiting room where 15 minutes of supervision is possible with respect to social distancing B. Informatica equipments: - At least 1 PC, 1 ID card reader, 1 barcode scanner and QR code scanner, 1 printer - If possible WiFi connection, WiFi code available - Access to vaccination software "Vaccinet+" C. Protective equipment for staff: - Surgical mask - Gloves - Optional: Keel, glasses, or face shield D. Equipment for the preparation and administration of the vaccine - Spray of 3 ml, with a gradation of 0.1 ml, and 18G syringe needle, ampoules NaCl 0.9% for vaccine solution - Spray 1ml, gradation with 0.1 ml and injection needle with 23 or 25 gauge - Compresses, - Alcohol-dismetting swabs for bottle, individually packaged connection E. Equipment for patients: - Anaphylactic and allergy kit with at least 2 ampoules of adrenaline 1 mg/1 ml, 2 gradation with 2 ml needles - 20 ml - 20 ml - 20 ml - 20 ml - 20 ml - 20 ml - 20 ml