Law amending the law of 17 March 2019 concerning the professions of accountant and tax advisor as regards the Institute of Tax Advisors and Accountants of FILIP, King of Belgians, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. The Chamber of Representatives has adopted and We confirm what follows; Article 1. This law regulates a matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. Art. 2. Article 127 of the Act of 17 March 2019 concerning the professions of accountant and tax advisor is supplemented by paragraphs 4 to 6: " § 4. By way of derogation from Article 63, the interim Board of the Institute shall convene a general meeting composed of all natural persons registered on the tableau of members or on the list of trainees of the Institute of Accountants and the Tax consultants referred to in Article 5 of the Act of 22 April 1999 or on the tableau of the professional or on the list of trainees of Erkene Accountants and Fiscalists referred to in Article 45/1 of the Act of 22 April 1999.The meeting of one or more Commissioners among the natural persons referred to in the first paragraph. The mandate of the Commissioner is incompatible with the terms of office of President, Vice-President or member of the transitional council or of the councils of the merging institutes, as well as any committee or working party set up by the Institute or by the merging institutes. The Commissioner checks the annual accounts of the Institute. He prepares a report and transfers it to the annual general meeting. The general meeting determines the remuneration of the Commissioner. As long as all the provisions of this law have not entered into force, the members and trainees of the merging institutes will continue to pay the contributions fixed by each of the merging institutes. The entire contribution of the merging institutes covers the operating costs of the Institute and of the merging institutes. § 5. The Institute is established and has legal personality to carry out the assignments to the transitional council and the general meeting referred to in this article. § 6.