This decision is based on: - the Decree of 7 May 2004 concerning the internal independent agency with legal personality "Sport Flanders', Article 5 (1), (1) and (2) inserted by the Decree of 4 December 2015; - the Decree of 09 July 2021 adjusting the expenditure budget of the Flemish Community for the financial year 2021, Article 44, § 3. Shape requirements The following formal requirements are fulfilled: - The Flemish Minister, responsible for the budget, granted his agreement on 18 March 2021 - The European Commission granted its approval for this aid measure on 29 April 2021. - The SARC has given its opinion on 2 April 2021. - A request for emergency treatment has been made, motivated by the fact that the effects of the federal corona measures taken by the National Security Council from 12 March 2020 and that have a particularly high impact on the sports sector, as quickly as possible, so that the continuity of the sports clubs suffering severe income losses is maintained by all sports clubs in favour of any kind of the sport.This decision is consistent with the following rules: - Communication from the Commission (C(2020) 1863) Temporary Framework for State aid in support of the economy due to the current COVID-19 outbreak. Initiator This Decision is proposed by the Flemish Minister of Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand. After deliberation, THE VLAAMSE GOVERNMENT DECISION: CHAPTER 1. - General provisions Article 1. In this Decision the following terms shall apply: 1° Policy Focus Youth Sport: the Policy Focus Youth Sport, mentioned in Article 9, third paragraph, 2°, a) and Article 12 of the Decree of 10 June 2016; 2° Decree of 10 June 2016: in the Decree of 10 June 2016 approving and subsidising the organized sports sector; 3° Reduction of turnover, exclusive of VAT and the income from either sponsorship or membership, in a period of at least nine months related to the sport season in question.The Sports Federation, listed in the first paragraph, receives a single grant equal to three times the maximum grant granted to it for youth sports for the year 2020. In order to qualify for that grant, the Sports Federation, referred to in the first paragraph, shall provide a signed declaration. In that declaration the Sports Federation shall specify that it intends to apply the grant to its sports clubs for the year 2020. In order to qualify for the grant, the Sports Federation, indicated in the first paragraph, shall provide a signed declaration to that effect. In that declaration the Sports Federation shall establish a form indicating that it intends to apply for the grant and that it undertakes to distribute the grant to its sports clubs in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 5. The Declaration shall be submitted to the Sports Federation, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 5.(b) there are participating sports clubs which are in one of the following legal situations: (1) dissolution; (2) cessation; (3) bankruptcy; (4) liquidation; 2° a derogation to the potential beneficiaries or to the percentage distribution according to the share of the participating sports clubs in the subsidy under the Youth Sports Policy Focus 2020, if some participating sports clubs were awarded an additional subsidy in 2020 under the rules mentioned in Article 12, second paragraph, 3°, (d) of the Decree of 10 June 2016.2° the sports club has participated with its team or teams in the club competition. A sports club which has not temporarily participated in the club competition, can only be eligible for the grant pro rata for the number of months taken; 3° the sports club has a turnover reduction of at least 60% as a result of the corona measures and a turnover of at least 100,000 euros (hundred thousand euros) and up to 5 million euros (five million euros) in the reference period 2019-2020, mentioned in Article 1, 3° of this Decision. In paragraph 1, 3°, the sports club makes the choice whether or not to deduct the revenue from either sponsorship funds from both. This choice also applies to the determination of turnover as stated in the fourth paragraph. The subsidy to the sports club in 2020 and 2021 amounts to 10% of the turnover in the reference period, expressed in terms of the tax rate, expressed in the first paragraph, 3°, the sports club shall be entitled to the option of either:(c) bankruptcy; (d) liquidation; 2° sports clubs which on 30 September 2020 do not have an active operating seat in the Dutch language region or in the bilingual region of Brussels-Capital do not have a sports club in difficulty as listed in point 22 (c) of the Temporary Framework. Art. 10. The sports club may apply to Sport Flanders once for a grant as mentioned in Article 7. That application is submitted in the manner laid down by Sport Flanders. The grant application may be submitted at the latest four weeks after the publication of this decision in the Belgian Official Journal. The sports club shall decide in the application, indicated in the first paragraph, its company number and show that it meets the conditions set out in Article 8, first paragraph, 2° and 3°. Art. 11. The Flemish Minister, responsible for sport, shall decide on the grant, indicated in Article 7, after the opinion of Sport Flanders. If the total of the grants to be awarded is more than the available budget, shall apply a percentage factor.Article 17. The Flemish Minister responsible for sport is responsible for implementing this decision. Brussels, 9 July 2021. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister for Education, Sport, Animal Welfare and Flemish Rand, B. WEYTS