Royal Decree No 10 for the granting of and the rules for the distribution and settlement of an advance to general hospitals in the context of the epidemic by the Coronavirus COVID-19 REPORT TO THE KONING Sire, The three draft decisions which I have the honour to submit to Your Majesty for signature are the first step in the support offered to hospitals in the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic COVID-19 affecting Belgium. General hospitals and health care providers in hospitals are confronted with different additional costs or a reduction in income compared to their normal operation. It concerns costs related to the execution of the emergency plans which have a large, unforeseen impact on normal activity, to additional costs for materials, staff, changes in structure, etc., and to loss of income (honoraria, flats..) by the cancellation of scheduled operations, both for patients included in the hospital as being the infirmary patients.It should be noted that the first phase of the granting of an advance of one billion euro in a budget within the framework of medical care. Depending on the evolution of the situation and the analyses of the real needs to be carried out, an additional budget in addition to the current budget for medical care, in order to ensure that the normal rate of advance of an advance of one billion euro on the basis of an advance of one billion euro on the basis of a budget within the framework of the budget for medical care.In the present situation, however, the costs covered by the budget of the financial resources of the hospitals and giving rise to a concession are so high that the benefits are not at all sufficient to cover their extension to the burden of the hospitals 19. That article must therefore be adjusted so that the costs normally borne but much higher than in a normal period can be borne by the budget of the financial resources of the hospitals. That possibility depends on the determination by the King, in the context of the Council of Ministers decision and after the opinion of the High Health Council, of a state of epidemic or pandemic. The drafts presented to you thus allow you to take all necessary legal and regulatory measures so that the advance can be paid at short notice and on the other grounds of the normal budget of the hospitals can be taken into account.The second draft Royal Decree amends Article 101 of the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care institutions. Article 1 deletes the concept of 'forfaitous' coverage of costs in order to take account of real costs which, on the basis of the opinions of the working groups, will be 'accepted' in the special circumstances attributable to the sanitary approach of the epidemic. The same article also removes the condition that the costs may not be covered by a government meeting. The third draft Royal Decree is the necessary condition for the application of the aforementioned Article 101, in particular the adoption, in the Council of Ministers, of a decision on the basis of which the High Health Council, of an epidemic situation in Belgium, I have the honour to be, Sire, Van Uwejd, the highly respectful and faithful dienaar, The Minister of Social Affairs and Health, M. THE BLOCK COUNCIL OF STATE.Article 4, third paragraph, of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (I) ', which refers to Article 84 (1), first paragraph, 3°, of the Laws of the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, the Legislative Section had to confine itself to examining the legal basis of the draft, the powers of the author of the act and the pre-form requirements to be fulfilled."Les hôpitaux doivent faire face d'une part à des surcoûts (par exemple : heures supplémentaires du personnel, coûts du personiel, des vêtements de travail, extension des services de soinsifs,...) et d'autre part, l'activation des plans d'urgence une baisse des activités non conservatités, ores de guilles de montiques (art. 6). The design is linked to two other draft royal decrees submitted simultaneously to the Council of State for advice, whereby, on the one hand, Article 101 of the Coordinated Law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments' (hereinafter referred to as "the hospital law') is activated by the establishment of a COVID-19 epidemic in Belgium, 2 and, on the other hand, to increase the size of the eligible costs.cet article n'aurait pas permis de couvrir les surcoûts rencontrés : ainsi, les services de soins intensifs sont couverts par le BMF... sans modification de l'article, les surcoûts dans ces services ne pourraient pas être pris en charge. Or la crise impliquejustement une extension importante des capacités d'accueil en soins intense à la demande des autorités. La notice de 