Law amending the Code of Value Added Tax, as regards the regime applicable to distance selling of goods and to certain supplies of goods and services (1) FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. The Chamber of Representatives has adopted and We confirm what follows: Article 1. This law governs a matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. Art. 2. This law provides for the partial transposition of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017 amending Directive 2006/112/EC and Directive 2009/132/EC as regards certain VAT obligations for services and distance selling of goods. The law also provides for the transposition of Council Directive (EU) 2019/1995 of 21 November 2019 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the provisions on distance selling and certain domestic supplies of goods.the taxable person, or for a non-taxable legal person, whose intra-Community acquisitions of goods pursuant to Article 3 (1) of Directive 2006/112/EC are not subject to VAT, or for any other non-taxable person; 2° the goods supplied are not new means of transport referred to in Article 8a, § 2, nor goods delivered after assembly or installation, by or on behalf of the supplier, with or without testing of the goods installed or installed." Article 4. In Chapter III, Section 1, Subsection 1 of the same Code, an Article 13a shall be inserted, in words: "Art. 13a. § 1 If a taxable person, through the use of an electronic interface such as a market place, platform, portal or similar means, distance sales of goods imported from a third country or a third country into consignments of goods not exceeding 150 euro, shall be deemed to have been effected by the taxable person himself and supplied. § 2.at the time of the arrival of the goods to the customer and the importation into a Member State other than Belgium, the distance sales from a third country or a third country to the goods imported into Belgium, where the goods are located in Belgium at the time of the arrival of the dispatch or transport of the goods to the customer and the importation into Belgium, where the tax on those goods is to be declared under the special scheme referred to in Title XII, Chapter 6, Section 4 of Directive 2006/112/EC. However, the first paragraph, 1°, shall not apply where the following conditions are met: 1° the supplier is established or, in the absence of an establishment, has his place of residence or usual place of residence in only one Member State other than Belgium; 2° the goods are dispatched or transported to Belgium; 3° the total amount, exclusive of VAT, of the services referred to in Article 21a, § 2, 9°, second paragraph, b) and of the intra-Community distance sales of goods to a Member State other than the person referred to under 1° in the current calendar year, shall not exceed EUR 10 000 and shall not be exceeded by that amount to Belgium;In accordance with Article 21a (2), point 9 (b), the total amount, excluding VAT, of the services referred to in Article 21a (2) and paragraph 2 (b) and the intra-Community distance sales of goods to a Member State other than the one referred to in point 1° shall not exceed EUR 10 000 in the current calendar year and shall not exceed that amount in the course of the preceding calendar year. Where in the course of a calendar year the threshold referred to in paragraph 3° is exceeded, the first paragraph shall apply from the first delivery of goods from Belgium, for which the threshold has been exceeded, shall not apply to a period of at least two calendar years and shall also apply to intra-Community distance sales of goods from other Member States than Belgium.(c) the total amount, excluding VAT, of the services referred to in point (b) and intra-Community distance sales of goods to a Member State other than the one referred to in point (a) shall not exceed EUR 10 000 in the current calendar year and shall not exceed that amount in the preceding calendar year.' Article 9. In Article 27 (3) of the same Code, the words "and shall also have the effect of replacing intra-Community distance sales of goods in the Member State of arrival of the dispatch or transport of the goods' shall be replaced by the words "a service referred to in Articles 58ter, 58quater and 58quins'. Article 39ter of the same Code, inserted by the Law of 28 December 1992, repealed by the Royal Decree of 8 October 1999, confirmed by the Law of 5 August 2003, as follows:(b) in a Member State other than Belgium, the following amendments shall not be made to the special scheme referred to in Article 58quater;" Article 13. In Article 53 of the same Code, replaced by the law of 28 January 2004 and as last amended by the law of 6 December 2015, the following shall be added: (a) paragraph 1a shall be replaced as follows: "paragraph 1a. Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1°, shall not apply to the taxable person who makes only transactions for which he uses a special scheme referred to in Title XII, Chapter 6 of Directive 2006/112/EC.";Article 15 In Article 53i (1) of the same Code, inserted by the Law of 17 December 2012 and as last amended by the Law of 11 February 2019, the third paragraph shall be replaced as follows: "By way of derogation from the first paragraph, in billing shall be subject to the rules applicable in the Member State in which the taxable person making use of one of the special arrangements referred to in Title XII, Chapter 6 of the Directive 2006/112/EC, shall be identified."Article 58b of the same Code, inserted in Chapter IX of the same Code, shall be replaced by the following: "Article 58b of the same Code, inserted by the Law of 22 April 2003, shall be replaced by the declaration in which all the information necessary to determine the amount of the VAT payable in each Member State shall be replaced by the following: "Article 58b of the same Code shall be replaced by the following: "Article 58b of the same Code, for the purposes of applying Articles 58b to 58quinquies, shall mean the declaration in which all the information necessary to determine the amount of the tax payable in each Member State shall be replaced by the following: "Article 58b of the same Code, inserted by the Act of 19 December 2014 and amended by the Act of 11 February 2019:The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 shall be granted an individual VAT identification number for the purposes of applying this special scheme, which shall be communicated to him by electronic means. § 5. The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 shall, by electronic means, communicate to the taxable person the termination of his activity covered by this special scheme, as well as any modification thereof which makes it impossible for him to satisfy the conditions under which his special scheme is to be used; the VAT identification of the taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 shall be removed from the list of taxable persons referred to in paragraph 3 if:That register shall contain sufficient information to enable the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption to determine the accuracy of the declaration. The information contained in the accounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made available by electronic means at the request of the officials of the administration responsible for value added tax as well as that of the officials of the competent administration of the Member State of consumption. Such information shall be kept for 10 years after the end of the year in which the service was provided. § 8. However, the taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 may recover the tax levied on the goods supplied to him under Article 76, § 2. Where a taxable person not established in the Community who uses this special scheme is obliged to identify himself in Belgium for activities not covered by this special scheme and for which he must be identified in accordance with Article 50 (1), first paragraph 3°, he may tax the goods supplied to him in accordance with Article 76, § 2.(a) where the taxable person has established his place of business or a single fixed establishment in the Community: the Member State in which the taxable person has established his place of business, or the Member State in which he has established his place of business, or, if he has established his place of business, the Member State in which he has a permanent establishment;The taxable person referred to in paragraph 2 who uses this special arrangement with Belgium as the Member State of identification shall indicate the beginning of his economic activity covered by this special scheme to the electronic address created for that purpose by the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative. § 4. For taxable transactions carried out under this special scheme, the taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 shall make use of his VAT identification number which has been granted to him in accordance with Article 50 (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) or (3) of the taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 at the time of the termination of his activity under this special scheme and shall no longer satisfy the conditions for the use of this special scheme.Where the goods are dispatched by the taxable person referred to in paragraph 3 or transported from Member States other than Belgium, the declaration shall also include the total amount of VAT, the applicable VAT rates, the total amount of the corresponding VAT, broken down by tax rates, and the total amount of tax payable on the following supplies covered by this special scheme, for each Member State from which those goods have been dispatched or transported: 1° the intra-Community distance sales of goods other than those made by a taxable person in accordance with Article 13a, point 2; 2° the individual VAT identification number or the tax registration number issued by each Member State from which such goods are dispatched or transported shall be carried out by an intra-Community distance sales made by a taxable person pursuant to Article 13a, point 2 of Article 13a, paragraph 2 of this Article shall also include, in respect of the supplies referred to in Article 13a, paragraph 1°, the individual VAT number or the tax registration number issued by each Member State from which such goods are dispatched or transported.In order to enable the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption to determine the accuracy of the declaration, the information contained in the accounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made available by electronic means at any request by the officials of the administration responsible for value added tax and that of the officials of the competent administration of the Member State of consumption.(b) where the taxable person has not established his business in the Community but has one or more permanent establishment in the Member State in which he is established:The first paragraph of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 904/2010 of the Council of 7 October 2010 on administrative cooperation and the fight against fraud in the field of value added tax and on distance selling of goods from that third country shall apply this special scheme to all their distance sales of goods imported from third countries or third countries. For the purposes of paragraph 1, 2°, a taxable person may designate at most one intermediary at a time. § 3. The taxable person referred to in paragraph 2 who uses this special scheme and Belgium shall choose as a Member State of identification, or an intermediary acting on his account, shall indicate the beginning of his economic activity covered by this special scheme on the electronic address created for that purpose by the Minister of Finance or his authorised person before making use of this special scheme.The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3, paragraph 1, or his intermediary, shall not, by electronic means, communicate to that Member State the termination of his activity covered by this special scheme, as well as any change thereto which would result in him no longer meeting the conditions for the use of this special scheme; the VAT identification of the taxable person referred to in paragraph 1 who does not use an intermediary shall be removed when: 1° he reports that he no longer carries out distance sales of goods imported from third countries or third countries; 2° he may otherwise be presumed that his taxable activities relating to distance sales of goods imported from third countries or third countries are terminated; 3° he no longer fulfils the conditions for the use of this special scheme; 4° he no longer fulfils the other conditions for continued compliance with the rules of this special scheme.The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3, first paragraph, shall, at the latest at the latest at the latest at the end of the period of validity of the declaration, be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 3. The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3. The taxable person referred to in paragraph 3, first paragraph, shall, at the latest at the latest at the time of the expiry of the period within which the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption are required to submit the declaration in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 3, first paragraph, carry out an accounting system in the form of a register. The intermediary referred to in paragraph 3, first paragraph, for all taxable persons represented by such accounts, shall include sufficient information to enable the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption to determine the accuracy of the declaration in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 3.The Belgian tax levied on the goods supplied to him and the services rendered to him in connection with his services covered by this scheme shall, in accordance with Article 76, § 9, determine the formalities to be complied with in relation to the declaration of the transactions carried out, the payment of the tax due, the keeping of due accounts and the refund of the input tax.' Article 25. In Chapter IX of the same Code, a Section 5 shall be inserted, denominated "Special arrangements for the declaration and payment of VAT on importation'. Article 26. In Section 5, inserted by Article 24, an Article 58sexies shall be inserted: "Art. 58sexies. § 1. If for the importation of goods other than excise goods, in consignments with an intrinsic value of not more than 150 euro are not used in respect of goods covered by the special arrangements referred to in Article 58quinquies, the person for whom the goods are intended to be applied to the customs and excise goods shall be subject to the special arrangements for the import of goods in accordance with the conditions laid down in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 58quinquies.sufficient information to enable the administration responsible for value added tax to assess the accuracy of the tax declared. On request, that register must be made available electronically to the administration responsible for value added tax. § 5. The King determines the formalities to be complied with in relation to the declaration of the transactions carried out, the payment of the tax due, the keeping and presentation of an appropriate accounting and the refund of the input tax." Article 27. This law enters into force on 1 July 2021. Announce this law, ordering that it be held with the country's seal and will be published by the Belgian Official Journal. Data given in Brussels, 2 April 2021. FILIP Van Koningswege: The Minister of Finance, V. VAN PETEGHEM With the Land's seal: The Minister of Justice, V. VAN QUICKENBORNE ________ Note (1) Chamber of Representatives (www.dekamer.be) Stukkens: K55-1820 Integral report: 25 March 2021.