Decision of the Flemish Government granting aid to the sports sector in the framework of the sports emergency fund following the COVID-19 pandemic Legal basis This decision is based on: - the Decree of 19 June 2020 on the adoption of urgent measures relating to the emergency funds for culture, youth, sport, media and local authorities, and on the fight against poverty following the COVID-19 pandemic, Article 5 and 7. Form requirements - The Flemish Minister responsible for the budget, has given his agreement on 15 July 2020. - The Sports Council of the Council for Culture, Youth, Sport and Media gave its opinion on 27 July 2020. - An application for an opinion was submitted to the Council of State on 6 August 2020 for an opinion within 30 days, applying Article 84, § 1, first paragraph, of the laws on the State Council, coordinated on 12 January 1973.After consultation, DE VLAAMSE GOVERNMENT DECISION: CHAPTER 1. - General provisions Article 1. For this Decision, the following shall mean: 1° Minister: the Flemish Minister responsible for sport; 2° Sport Flanders: the Agency established by the Decree of 7 May 2004 concerning the internal self-employed agency with legal personality "Sport Flanders." CHAPTER 2. - Support from the emergency fund sport to organisers of sporting events that have received a subsidy from the Sport policy field on the basis of the grant regulations of Sport Flanders for the organisation of a top sports event, G-sport event or top sports event that takes place in 2020 Art. 2. The aid from the emergency fund sports to organisers of sports events that in 2020 have received a subsidy from the Sport policy field on the basis of the grant regulations of Sport Flanders for the organisation of a top sports event, G-sport event or upper-sport event that takes place in 2020 is intended to partially compensate for or provide support in the event of the COVID-19.In the file, the organiser shows the costs which are eligible for aid in accordance with Article 3, second paragraph, and which are linked to the organisation of the event in question. Costs for which the grant or aid has already been granted by another public authority are not eligible. Sport Flanders assesses the file on the basis of the objective of the aid measures listed in Article 2, and the eligible costs listed in Article 3, second paragraph. The Minister grants the aid after Sport Flanders has assessed the file. The application files submitted by 15 October 2020 shall be the subject of a decision by 30 November 2020 at the latest. The application files submitted by 15 November 2020 shall be the subject of a decision by 31 December 2020. By way of derogation from the third paragraph, a sports event which takes place between 1 November 2020 and 31 December 2020 may be the subject of an application file until 15 December 2020 at the latest.(a) Flemish Sport Federation vzw; (b) Institute for Sport Management vzw. The organisations listed in paragraph 1, 2°, shall spend the amount of aid granted, in accordance with the objective set out in Article 6, on their own operation or to the supervision of the restart in the sports sector of their target group. The organisations listed in paragraph 1, 3°, shall spend the amount of aid granted, in accordance with the objective, indicated in Article 6, on their own operation and to the supervision of the restart in the sports sector of their members or target group. The aid, mentioned in paragraph 1, shall be used in 2020 or 2021.The aid from the emergency fund for sport to the subsidised sports federations and organisations for sport activities Art. 10. The aid from the emergency fund for sport to the subsidised sports federations and organisations for sport activities which for the year 2020 receive a general operating subsidy on the basis of the decree of 10 June 2016 recognising and subsidising the organized sports sector shall not be used to offset in part the damage caused by the COOVID-19 pandemic or to provide support at the start-up after the COOVID-19 pandemic in the manner specified in the second paragraph by the sports federation or the organisation for sports activities as follows:Article 12. The sports federation or the sports leisure organisation shall justify the use of the aid, as indicated in Article 11, together with the justification of its operating grants 2020 through the operating report and the financial report in the manner laid down by Sport Flanders. If the aid is used in 2021, the organisation shall justify the use of the grant together with the responsibility of its operating grants 2021 through the operating report and the financial report in the manner laid down by Sport Flanders. Sport Flanders shall monitor the use of the aid. The sports federation or organisation for sporting leisure activities shall be responsible for the immediate repayment of the aid if it does not comply with the conditions, shall not use the aid in accordance with the purpose or control by Sport Flanders of its use. CHAPTER 5. - Final provisions Art. 13. The remainder of the aid from the sports emergency fund provided for in Chapters 2, 3 and 4, and may not be paid out to the actors in Chapter 2, 3 and 4.