In view of the respective powers of the Federal State and of the entities in the financing and organization of primary health care and hospital care; in view of the urgent need to adapt the care provided in the context of the management of the COOVID-19 crisis in order to limit -the spread of the epidemic - the availability of sufficient care to provide the necessary care to those affected by the disease - and to protect the health workers as effectively as possible against the risk of the disease; in the context of the Interministerial Conference on Health, the Federal Government and the Regions have engaged in consultations with representatives of doctors and hospitals in order to:A. The triage function The purpose of the triage function is to prevent patients whose condition does not require hospitalization from applying to hospital emergency services. This function is intended for patients referred to by a general practitioner who has not carried out a physical clinical examination and who suspects that the symptoms are serious enough to justify hospitalisation. A clinical examination is carried out by a general practitioner, possibly assisted by nursing staff. The presence of a doctor is necessary at all times when the triage function is accessible. If the doctor, after a clinical examination, considers that a hospitalisation is not necessary, he may decide to prescribe a test to the patient and to carry it out in the triage and take-off center. B. The reduction function The reduction function is intended to better meet the needs of the population screening and must allow the test demand to be met by any person who meets the criteria defined for the test (1) and who is not included in a residential structure.But the coordinating doctor will always be on call (for example, if a patient has more serious symptoms requiring a clinical examination to assess whether hospitalization is necessary). 2. Accessibility of triage and reduction functions A. The triage function Each triage and reduction center establishes its triage function in a single location. To ensure sufficient accessibility of triage functions, the entities will ensure that the number of centers corresponding to at least 1 center per starting disk of 100,000 inhabitants is maintained (2). In regions where the number of centers exceeds 1 center per 100,000 inhabitants, the entities will take the initiatives they consider useful to merge the centres that have the least inhabitants with a neighbouring center. Triage functions are organized in close cooperation with the emergency services of the hospitals. They make the necessary arrangements for the authorities. If the need for triage of patients for whom a face-to-face clinical examination is necessary to assess the possible hospitalisation is severely reduced and if the hospital function itself can be performed, the triage function of the hospital is not possible.- at each location where the function is organized, it will be accessible every day of the week, with the possibility of referring patients to another location during the weekend (watch station, other purchasing function). The opening hours can be adapted to the needs of the population and the workload, taking into account the evolution of the epidemic; they will always be known at least one week in advance. 3. Triage and purchasing centres will be placed under the medical coordination of the general practitioners' circles The medical coordination of the triage and reduction centres can be entrusted to the general practitioners who are recognized on the basis of either:The two circuits are complementary, but are completely independent of each other. Each triage and purchasing centre is therefore asked to choose either one or the other circuit. A combination of the two is not allowed to avoid risks of double funding. If the federal platform is chosen, that platform will be responsible for the supply of test material to the triage and reduction centre, the collection of the tests taken, their transport to its laboratories and the transmission of the analysis results. The test material provided by the federal platform cannot in any case be distributed to individual doctors who would then send them to a private or hospital laboratory. If the triage and purchasing centre chooses to work with a hospital labo or private laboratory, then the laboratory will not accept the costs for the supply of the test material, for its collection and for the transmission of the analysis results.The centre itself will be responsible for the further distribution to its locations according to the needs. B. Taking-up material The provision of the purchasing material to the triage and purchasing centres depends on the 'laboratory circuit' chosen by the centre: either via the federal platform or via a private or hospital laboratory. The federal government finances this material and the analyses of the tests under the agreements with the federal platform or through the classical reimbursement rules of sickness and invalidity insurance. C. Financing of the start-up fee To reimburse the activity and time spent by the doctors who have participated in the establishment of the triage and purchasing centre during the period prior to its opening, taking into account the loss of fees for regular activity, each center will receive a maximum of 7,230,60 EUR charged by the RIZIV (included in KB No 20). The amount to be fixed by royal decision and will be determined by the number of residents and the number of participating general practitioners.The exact organization within the triage and purchasing centre (e.g. the creation of possible decentralisation for the purchasing function) does not have an impact on the financing by the sickness insurance system. The centre is considered as a whole and is the only point of contact for the RIZIV. This centre must clearly indicate the recognised care organisation responsible for the operation of the centre, as well as the general practitioner's circle, which coordinates the centre and the number of residents within the region covered by the centre. E. Intervention for operating costs As regards the remuneration of the operating costs: each participating entity shall lay down the conditions under which it meets the operating costs of these centres. In addition, the following general principles shall not be applied: - costs already reimbursed by a government may not be taken into account, for example, for a number of operating costs of waiting posts and hospitals if they make available infrastructure or equipment for protection purposes;In Wallonia, the Walloon Government undertakes to support the organization of the centres by covering the costs not covered by other funds, on the basis of its infrastructure, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009, and in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009, and with the conditions laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009.In the meantime, only the existing triage and purchasing centres will be able to carry out the purchasing function. D. In the German-speaking Community the German-speaking Community supports triage and purchasing centres and hospitals by subsidising infrastructure projects and rehabilitation works and by supporting the purchase of medical and non-medical materials. The triage and purchasing centres are in weekly contact with representatives of the German-speaking Community. In this way, their questions and needs can be dealt with quickly. The German-speaking Community also responds to any urgent requests for materials from the triage and purchasing centres (in addition to the support of the federal government). To reduce the number of actions taken in the triage and purchasing centre or at home, the German-speaking Community provides logistical support to the centres.The absence of sufficient information in the central database will lead to an interruption of the supply of (protection or reduction) material to the centres concerned and to an interruption of its financing by the RIZIV. The decisions of the centres to open or close a location allocated to the purchasing function (with the understanding that the purchasing function remains operational at least in one location), as well as the decision to implement or re-activate their triage function, should be the subject of a prior consultation with the subsidiary to which the centre belongs.For the Federal State: M. DE BLOCK, Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, and of Asylum and Migration For the Flemish Community and the Flemish Region: W. BEKE, Flemish Minister of Welfare, Public Health, Family and Armed Fighting Pour la Région Wallonne: C. MOREALE, Vice-Présidente et Ministere de l'Emploi, de la Formation, de la Santé, de l'Action sociale, de l'Egalité des channels et des femmes Pour la Communité française Community: B. LINARD, Vice-Présiente et Ministe de l'Enfance, de la Culture, de la Santé, de L'Egalité des chances et de l'Écolle, de l'Egalité de l'Écollier, de l'Egalité des femmes Pour la Communité française: B.und Soziales, Raumordnung und Wohnungswesen ______ Notes 1 See https://covid-19.sciensano.be/sites/default/files/Covid19/COVID-19_Case%20definition_Testing_NL.pdf 2 In March 2020 152 centres were registered by RIZIV: 12 in Brussels, 94 in Flanders, 44 in Wallonia and 2 in the German-speaking Community.