It is clear that the occupational doctors of the internal and external preventive services can play an important role in limiting the spread of the coronavirus in the company. They know the company, its activities and organisation, and are familiar with the risks and preventive measures. They also have a neutral role in relation to both employers and employees, and are bound by the medical professional secrecy. This implies that the personal data relating to health referred to in this Decision are already protected by the medical professional secrecy, and that in principle there can be no transfer of such data beyond this medical professional secrecy. Also the social partners in the High Council for Prevention and Protection of Workers at Work have already pointed out in their position of 7 October 2020 to the key role for the occupational doctor in the workplace, as well as to the need for direct referral of workers to testing centres, or to the self-testing of workers, and have been able to write out to workers in the High Council for Prevention and Protection at work as a high risk for workers.In addition, the role of the occupational physician in the context of dealing with infectious diseases on the work floor is also mentioned in particular in order to avoid "the worker with a serious infectious disease, who is obliged to take sick leave recommended by the prevention adviser-work doctor on the health assessment form, is obliged to consult without delay his treating doctor with whom the prevention adviser-work doctor will have contacted" (Article I.4-71 of the Codex on Welfare at Work). The rules on contact detection, quarantine and testing do not form part of the framework on well-being at work. On the other hand, these rules must be complied with by employers and workers, and the occupational doctor is de facto assigned a role when these rules are applied on the working floor. It is therefore necessary that for the period of the COVID-pairmy these important tasks are also applied in the field of occupational safety at the workplace.Since it is a temporary assignment of these additional tasks and a temporary adaptation of the priorities of the occupational physician, in particular in the context of combating the corona pandemic at work, this decision is not inserted into the Codex on Well-being at Work, but rather a sui generis decision is chosen. In any case, this decision will have effect as long as the urgent measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus are applicable and have an impact on the work of the occupational physician. These urgent measures are imposed by the Minister of Home Affairs in successive ministerial decisions giving effect to the decisions of the consultation committee and the other competent consultative bodies.Article 3 This article provides for temporary measures or transitional measures to ensure the full re-use of the usual health surveillance duties on the premises of the medical profession. Article 2 This Article provides for a short quote for a number of frequently occurring concepts in the form of a form of contact with the person concerned. Article 3 This Article provides for temporary measures or transitional measures to be taken temporarily to limit the spread of COVID-19 on the working floor as far as possible and to avoid possible outbreaks. The doctor must perform these tasks in a consensual manner in all undertakings, irrespective of their size, in accordance with the rules governing the employment of the person concerned.The temporary workers must also be included in the contact examination, etc. as an employee of the user positive test on COVID-19. The temporary worker must then deliver the quarantine attestation to the temporary worker office. The worker doctor may in various ways be informed that a worker is COVID-19 positive, e.g. because he is contacted by the contact investigation services (and in accordance with the procedures elaborated by the competent (regional or local) authorities who often refer to the worker doctor as the positive worker indicates that he has been at work and has passed the contamination possible. It is also possible for the worker doctor to be directly informed by the worker himself or by the employer (which is often informed by the worker) that the worker also knows the presence of positive tested workers, the most important thing is that he can act on the basis of this information and start the contact.For persons exercising an essential profession such as caregivers, if this is the only possibility to ensure continuity of care/service, these rules are determined by Sciensano and are to be found on their website at https://covid-19.sciensano.be/en/covid-19 procedures (document "procedure with the measures for contacts' and therein the part quarantined - https://covid-19.sciensano.be/sites/default/files/Covid19/COVID-19_procedure_contact_NL.pdf). In this context, the advice of the Order of Doctors, which inter alia deals with the refusal of patients to be tested or held in quarantine: https://www.ordomedic.be/nl/advisies/hoe-de-art-serve-to-to-trade-if-a-a-patent-to-test-on-covid-on-19-of-the-compat-sorte-sorte-sorte can also be made by: https://www.comThe first category of workers who can refer to the occupational doctor for a test are those who have been identified by him as high risk contact in accordance with 1°, if the test strategy of the competent authority provides that high risk contacts are tested (see point (a). If the occupational doctor considers that a test is necessary to control a major outbreak in the undertaking (e.g. in the context of cluster management), he may also refer workers to a test (see point (b). In this case, for example, the test of workers in a hospital or nursing home where a major outbreak could endanger COVID-19 persons (e.g. elderly, patients with chronic conditions or a weak health).In certain specific circumstances, the only condition for this to be decided by the competent (federal or regional) public health authorities or by the interministerial conference of public health (under point (e)), if prior agreement of the FOD Waso has been obtained: the assignment of tasks and assignments to the occupational doctors is the exclusive competence of the Federal Minister of Work. This agreement also ensures that the social partners of the High Council for Prevention and Protection at work can express their opinion on this extension of the test possibilities to workers: they have explicitly requested to be involved in decisions of this order which have a direct impact on employers and employees. However, the occupational doctor may also subject workers to a COVID-19 test (or the test can be carried out by a nurse under the responsibility of the company doctor) (Article 3, first paragraph, 4° of the decision).It is also important from an epidemiological point of view that the test result is also reported to the treating doctor of the employee (in accordance with the generally applicable rules in the codex, this is only possible with the consent of the employee himself). If, following the detection of the high risk contacts, the quarantine and the testing of workers, the occupational doctor determines that additional measures are necessary to limit or prevent the spread of the virus in the company, he must inform the employer as soon as possible so that he can take account of his risk analysis and take the necessary preventive measures (see also Article 4 for the role of the employer).In addition, it is also possible for the occupational physician, following the identification of a number of infections in the work context, to indicate to the employer that additional preventive measures, e.g. on hygiene, ventilation, or organization of work, are necessary to limit or prevent spread of the virus (Article 4 (3) of the Decision). If necessary, the employer shall review the risk analysis, request advice from the competent preventive advisors and consult as soon as possible and prior to taking the measures, on any additional preventive measures with the committee on prevention and protection at work. Article 5 Considering the importance of combating the spread of COVID-19, it is appropriate that the duties imposed in this decision be imposed on the occupational doctor, in particular in relation to the conditions of contact, quarantine and testing, priority to the other tasks of the occupational doctor, such as periodic health surveillance, the spontaneous consultations, the prior health assessments, the re-integration, etc.It is not possible, for example, to give priority to "workers who have previously obtained a different fitness on the health assessment form, or which contain 2/3 recommendations, or whose validity concerns a shorter period, or workers who have had complaints or different results in the supplementary medical operations. Also, the degree of exposure and risks associated with the exercise of certain functions may be a criterion. The extension of the periodicity in force last year may also help in this respect if workers have been subject to a periodic health assessment last year. In this case, the studies may be limited to the additional medical operations. (e.g. spirometry).Article 6 therefore makes exceptional provision for this health surveillance to be carried out at a later time than the codex requires (e.g. as a result of constant pressure on the profession as a result of the occupational disease).Article 7 Since the provisions of this KB have a significant impact on the health surveillance of workers, the employer must immediately inform the employees concerned of the measures taken by the codex (e.g. physical examinations when they are possible) if they are able to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the codex.This does not apply to the self-exercise of tests (cf. Article 3, paragraph 1, paragraph 4 of this Decision): these are not included in the "basic package" so that an additional invoice can be charged for the self-exercise of a test by the occupational health doctor. Moreover, the taking of tests by the occupational health doctor in certain circumstances in a number of cases has external financing (e.g. when the tests are carried out by the workers' doctor in consultation with the regional health inspector for an outbreak in residential care centres). For larger employers of groups A, B and C+ (who have at least one internal prevention advisor level I or II), they may use preventive units for the tasks performed by the occupational health doctor in the context of contact detection, the provision of quarantine attestations and for testing, in accordance with Article II.3-16, paragraph 2 of the Codex (or, after exhaustion of the prevention units, by virtue of Article II.3-19, § 2 of the Codex).Articles 10 and 11 of Article 10 determine the date of entry into force of the Decision, i.e. on the day of publication in the Belgian Official Journal, and Article 11 determines the competent minister for the implementation of this Decision. Given in Brussels, 5 January 2021. FILIP Van Koningswege : The Minister of Work, P.-Y. DERMAGNE 5 JANUARY 2021. - Royal decision concerning the role of the prevention adviser-work doctor in the fight against the coronavirus COVID-19 FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. Having regard to the Law of 4 August 1996 concerning the welfare of workers in the execution of their work, Article 4, § 1, numbered by the Law of 7 April 1999 and amended by the Law of 28 February 2014, and Article 40, § 3, amended by the Law of 27 November 2015; Having regard to the Social Criminal Code, Article 17, paragraph 1, amended by the Special Powers Decision No 37 of 24 June 2020; having regard to the codex on the welfare of work, Book I, Title 4, amended by the Act of 5 May 2019 and amended by the Act of 14 May 2019;the internal or external service for prevention and protection at work; 2° Company: the undertakings, associations and services, in the private and public sectors; 3° Codex: the Codex on welfare at work; 4° Committee: the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work, in the absence of a committee, the trade union delegation, and in the absence of a trade union delegation, the employees themselves, in accordance with the provisions of Article 53 of the Law of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work; 5° Arts-social inspector: the doctor-social inspector of the General Directorate of Welfare at the work of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation.(c) Employees who are not normally resident in Belgium and who are only temporarily employed here, and who have at least one symptoms or have tested positively on COVID-19, in the framework of cluster management; (d) Workers who are required to make foreign movements in the framework of their work and in which a negative COVID-19 test is necessary to carry out their work; (e) Workers in certain specific circumstances when decided by the competent government with the agreement of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, and on condition that the appropriate personal protective equipment and test equipment are used, shall also take into account the test strategy of the competent government.In addition to the tasks referred to in Article 3 and after consultation with the employer, the occupational doctor shall decide which health surveillance tasks are to be carried out as a matter of priority, in which order and for which workers, and in accordance with the priority requirements for the protection of the health and safety of those workers. In any case. § 3. During the period of the health crisis, the occupational doctor may decide to carry out the following consultations by video consultation or telephone in order to limit the risk of contamination, unless it is necessary to physically see or examine the worker.4. - Supervision Art. 9. Without prejudice to the powers of other inspection services on contact detection, quarantine and testing, the inspectors of the General Directorate of Welfare at Work are responsible for supervising the provisions of this Decision. Disputations of a medical nature are handled by the competent doctor-social inspector. CHAPTER 5. - Final provisions Art. 10. This Decision shall enter into force on the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Art. 11. The Minister responsible for Work is responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Published in Brussels, 5 January 2021. FILIP Van Koningswege : De Minister van Werk, P.-Y. DERMAGNE _________ Notes (1) References to the Belgian Official Journal: Law of 4 August 1996, Belgian Official Journal of 18 September 1996. Social Criminal Code of 6 June 2010, Belgian Official Journal of 1 July 2010. Codex on welfare at work, Belgian Official Journal of 2 June 2017.