Law providing for various provisions of justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greeting. The Chamber of Representatives has adopted and We confirm, which is as follows: CHAPTER 1. - General provision Article 1. This law governs a matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. CHAPTER 2. - Temporary relaxation of the requirements for the identification of signatories of authentic instruments exercising a judicial office or a post at the Constitutional Court Art. 2. The signatory of an authentic instrument in dematerialised form which performs a judicial function as referred to in Part II, Book II, Title 1 of the Civil Code, which was appointed as a judicial trainee in accordance with Article 259octies, Paragraph 1 of the same Code, or which performs an office as referred to in Title II, Chapter 1 or 3 of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, and which uses a qualified electronic signature within the meaning of Article 3.12. of the Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 concerning electronic identification services in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 1 of the Act of the same Code, or Article 1 of Article 3 of the Act of the Constitution, or 3 of the Constitutional Court ofArticle 6 Where the notary considers that the continuation of the procedure referred to in Article 5 is not possible, he may, at the time referred to in Article 5, amend the final date referred to in the first paragraph of Article 5 in writing to the extent that the time limit referred to in the first paragraph of this Article may be extended to 30 June 2020, the King may, by means of a decision adopted in accordance with the same procedure as that laid down in the Council of Ministers, adjust the time limit laid down in the first paragraph of this Article to take into account the time limit laid down in the first subparagraph of this paragraph of this Article and the time limit laid down in the second paragraph of this Article.Article 8 With the exception of the disciplinary proceedings referred to in Articles 533 to 548 of the Civil Code, all legal time limits for decisions, meetings and notifications referred to in Article 7 which have expired between 18 March 2020 and a month following the publication of this law, shall be extended for three months where the decisions, meetings and notifications in question have not taken place.Article 36 and 37 of the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims or Similar Regional Regulations, in the context of the preparation of acts which are the subject of the alienation or mortgage use of a property for mortgage. Article 10. This Chapter shall apply until 17 June 2020. The King may, by a decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, adjust the date referred to in paragraph 1 to take account of the duration of the measures taken in order to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic. CHAPTER 7. - Temporary exemption from the legal obligation to sign a judicial decision by all magistrates, professional magistrates or lay magistratesmen, which they have issued Art. 11. By way of derogation from Article 782 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and without prejudice to Articles 778 and 779 of the same Code of Procedure, a judicial decision has been given by a Chamber composed of several magistrates, be it also valid with the signature of the President of that Chamber and those of the Registrar.Article 15 This Chapter shall apply until 17 June 2020. The King may, by means of a decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, adjust the date laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article in order to take account of the duration of the measures taken with a view to combating the COOVID-19 pandemic.Article 20. By way of derogation from Article 508/15 of the Code of the Court of Justice, the Legal Assistance Office shall, during the period between 18 March 2020 and 30 June 2020, issue a ruling within 30 days. Article 21. The King may, by decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, amend the final date referred to in Articles 18 to 20 to take account of the duration of the measures taken in order to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic. CHAPTER 12. - Entry into force Art. 22. With the exception of the provisions of paragraph 2, this law shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Article 4 and Chapters 4, 5 and 11 shall have effect with effect from 18 March 2020.