The decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 46 to derogate and supplement the Code of Local Democracy and the decentralisation to support local finances with heavy debt due to the crisis COVID-19 and to allow budget deficits REPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT The extraordinary health crisis affecting Belgium today and the current and upcoming rules taken to limit the spread of the virus among the population are such that they slow down any type of activity in the territory of the Walloon Region and even cripple some services. The economic lockdown and recommendations they have received are now and will later have a major influence on municipal finances, both in terms of revenue and in terms of expenditure, both directly and indirectly, and in terms of all entities, and in particular the OCMW's. Therefore, it is important to support the municipalities in their ability to act, regardless of whether it is intended to support their efforts to combat the epidemic and its effects on economic and social affairs, then to ensure their financial viability in the context of their activities in the region.In the case of municipalities which do not achieve an overall balance due to the effects of the sanitary crisis, a specific assistance loan, COVID-19, may be granted on the basis of the general balance of the ordinary budget. The loan application, together with the corresponding annex to the aid centre and the Walloon Public Service for Home Affairs and Social Action, must be transferred by 30 September of the year at the latest. The loans will be granted annually, in the light of the actual situation experienced by the municipalities, and after verification of the various affected posts, which will be transferred by the municipalities in a specific annex. The loans will therefore be granted at the end of the year. The repayment period will be fixed at a maximum of 10 years, with an overall regional interest rate.As regards the loan, the repayment shall not exceed a maximum of 20 years, and shall in its entirety be borne directly by the municipality without any regional aid. Evaluation: An evaluation shall be carried out by 31 March 2021 at the latest. This evaluation shall take into account not only the actual figures of the different effects of the crisis for 2020, but also the estimates for 2021 of these same effects. It shall also state a state of affairs as to how the municipalities avail themselves of the different derogations arrangements, and of the different relay measures taken. It shall be impossible to carry out both evaluation and report as well as the collection of the various useful information only at the end of the year and may be adopted for the purposes of the year 2020 as well as for the purposes of the refined estimates for 2021. This assessment shall also be appropriate to determine any subsequent measures. Opinion of the Council of State Law No 67.466 of 2 June: The joint formal and technical adjustments proposed by the State Council of State are to be followed by means of the option of certain amendments to be made in accordance with the principle of theThe possibility of using the exceptional reserves for the same purpose is the answer to the comments of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia. The maximum allowed for both funding possibilities for the period 2020-2021 is EUR 100 per inhabitant. The period to repay the loan is set at a maximum of 20 years. Article 5 provides that the decision shall enter into force on the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Opinion of the Council of State No 67.466/4 of 2 June 2020 Legislative Section On 25 May 2020, the Council of State, legislative section, by the Minister of Housing, Local Authorities and Cities Policy of the Walloon Region, was requested to share an opinion within a period of five working days relating to a draft decision on derogation and supplementing the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralization to support local finances due to the crisis COVID-19 and budget deficits. The draft was examined by the fourth chamber of Martine Baguet, President of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber, Luc Cambier and Angle Anther, to take into account of theWhereas the crisis COVID-19 will have negative effects on the finances of local municipal authorities both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side; whereas the current budgetary rules to which local authorities are subject are wholly incompatible with the effects of the sanitary crisis on their means of action and functioning; whereas the exceptional derogation rules should be taken urgently because of the budgetary adjustments which local authorities will have to adopt; whereas it is also important that the efforts of numerous local municipal authorities in their participation in and support of the fight against the epidemic aid should be taken into account.Article L1314-2, § 3 of the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralisation (hereinafter referred to as the Code), in the draft, should read as follows: "Par dérogation au paragraphe 2, l'exercice propre du service ordinaire (la suite comme au projet) '. In the remainder of this provision, the expression "l'exercice propre', by preference over "l'exercice proprement dit', is used in the first paragraph of Article L1314-1, paragraph 1 of the draft, in the draft, in the French version, in accordance with Article L1314-4, § 4, in the French version, in the meaning of Article L1314-undercice propre.The Walloon Government of 5 July 2007 laying down the general rules of municipal comptability for the implementation of Article L1315-1 of the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralisation shall not, however, rely on the Decree of 17 March 2020 and not on Article L1315-1 of the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralisation. However, the Decision in its draft aims to establish "the budgetary, financial and accounting rules of the municipalities and the rules relating to the detailed implementation of the posts of their accounting officers'. The Member of the Minister shall justify this choice in the following manner: "In view of the urgency and the importance of the decisions taken, but also in order to ensure the consistency of the joint provisions (Articles 1 to 5), their readability and their exceptional character, we have considered it indispensable to include them in the Local Democracy and Decentralisation Code."Having regard to Article 39 of the Constitution; Having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, as amended; Having regard to the Decree of 17 March 2020 on the granting of special powers to the Walloon Government in the context of the health crisis Covid-19, in particular Article 1 (1) thereof; having regard to the opinion of the Council of State on 2 June 2020, pursuant to Article 84 (1) 2° of the laws of the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973; whereas the extraordinary health crisis in connection with COVID-19 which is taking place in Belgium and the current and future rules adopted to limit the spread of the virus among the population are such as to delay any kind of activity in the territory of the Walloon Region and certain services may even cripple; whereas this is such that the proper functioning of the various public services, in particular local authorities, precludes;For the financial years 2020 and 2021, it shall be calculated as a percentage of the total ordinary expenditure of the actual year of operation. Article 2. Article L1314-1 of the Local Democracy and Decentralisation Code shall be supplemented by paragraph 4 as follows: " § 4. In the course of the financial years 2020 and 2021, all municipalities, including the municipalities already under management plan, may, in the absence of a global balance in the ordinary service, in accordance with Article L1314-1, § 1, which is expressly the result of the crisis COVID-19, request financial support to the Government. This aid depends on the submission of a specific management plan COVID-19, which provides for the restoration of the overall balance of the normal service in the year in which the above financial support is obtained, and then, at the latest, in the financial year in which the financial year in which the financial year in which the financial year in question is actually used.service, via a loan and through the return of extraordinary reserve funds to the actual year of operation of the regular service are financed as were the commissions. The maximum allowed amount of the aggregate total of loan and the return of extraordinary reserve funds for the joint years 2020 and 2021 amounts to 100 euros per inhabitant. The repayment period of the loan is set at a maximum of 20 years. In such case, the loan is first duly booked on the regular service and then transferred to the ad hoc function of the ordinary service as if it were a provision." Art. 5. This decision enters into force the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Names, 11 June 2020. For the Government: The Prime Minister, E. DI RUPO The Minister of Housing, the Local Administration and the Urban Policy, P.-Y. DERMAGNE