In accordance with Article 2 of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorizing the King to take measures in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (II), the draft of the decision to ensure access to the necessary insurance in order to be able to take the necessary measures in order to take the necessary measures to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in order to take the necessary measures in order to comply with the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. In accordance with Article 2 of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorizing the King to take measures in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (II), the draft decision to ensure access to the necessary insurance in order to respond to the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and the consequences thereof, which allows the King to take measures in the light of the measures taken by theIt was not possible to follow all the legal and regulatory procedures but the measures adopted were adopted on the basis of questions from patients, health care providers and health insurance funds and were subject to informal consultation with health care providers and health insurance funds (either by digital consultation, exchanges by mail and telephone contacts). In order to ensure optimal equal treatment for patients and caregivers, 12 principles were agreed with the insurance institutions on the basis of comments from the different sectors, which served as the basis for the measures adopted regarding reimbursement conditions in the different sectors (except those requiring a specific approach).This period shall be suspended from 1 March to the end of the COVID period. In addition, this period shall be extended by 30 days.The exchangeability of the authorisations/agreements issued by the consultants in the framework of oxygen therapy is provided: an authorization/agreement given for one type of oxygen therapy is also valid for another type of oxygen therapy. Art. 5. At least until 31 May 2020, in the event of a shortage of erythrocyte concentrates, the specialties based on IV iron and erythropoietins will be refunded, provided that they are intended to correct certain blood povertys in order to prevent transfusions from being necessary. Art. 6. Public officialnas will be able to provide the specialties EyleaR and LucentisR for a period of at least until 31 May 2020, so that their administration is possible in a practical space (at an oftalmologist or in a private centre) which guarantees the optimal aseptic conditions in accordance with the guidelines of the FAG. 7. The authorization of the medical practitioner for the reimbursement of a medicinal product with an automatic period of 2 months of use of the medicinal product of Art.For the sake of COVID-19, hospitals do not carry out urgent consultations and treatments, the follow-up of certain agreements cannot take place within the agreed deadlines or rules and the procedures for submitting applications cannot be fully respected. To avoid this exceptional situation having an adverse effect on the patients concerned and on the hospitals concerned, exceptional measures may be taken:In order to ensure the quality and continuity of care during the COVID-19 crisis, of course with respect to the rules of physical distance, certain rules of medical care are adjusted for the reimbursement of benefits in kind provided by implant providers (cf List of implants and invasive medical devices and rehabilitation agreement implantable heart defibrillators):The period of validity of the treatment agreements for the benefit of the medical practitioner. Section 11 - Kinesitherapists Art. 17. In order to ensure the quality of care and care continuity also during the COVID-19 crisis, of course with respect to the rules of physical distance, certain rules of medical care insurance are adapted for the reimbursement of benefits in kind by physitherapists (Article 7 of the Nomenclature):.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the course of their identity check, nurses may apply the manual introduction. In this way, the third-payer's scheme may be correctly applied during this exceptional period, including in the event of non-reading of the eID. Section 17 - Midwife Art. 23. A number of benefits in kind under the refundable postnatal care may be granted at the latest 1 year after delivery. That period remains unchanged. Section 18 - Benefits provided for in the Royal Decree of 10 January 1991 establishing the classification of rehabilitation benefits referred to in Article 23 (2), second paragraph, of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits coordinated on 14 July 1994, fixing the fees and prices of those benefits and determining the amount of the insurance allowance in those fees and prices - Ergotherapy allowances Art. 24. The measure is a proposal of the College of Medical Directors which under Article 23 (2), second paragraph of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 is competent to give advice on the classification of the rehabilitation benefits referred to in that paragraph.Article 28. Article 28 provides for an extension of the period of application for physiotherapists for the use of telematics and the electronic management of files for the period from 2020 to 30 April 2020. As a result of the corona crisis, it is appropriate to provide for a longer period of time for the implementation of this Article for the period from 30 April to 30 April 2020.The King will therefore be able, for each measure, to set the most appropriate date for lifting it. This decision will have to be confirmed by law pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (II). The measures taken on the basis of this decision will have a time-limited effect and do not aim to definitively change the regulation. However, it is not possible to anticipate the evolution of the sanitary situation and thus immediately fix the duration of the measures envisaged. Article 32 determines the entry into force of the Royal Decree. To ensure the interests of the patients and the caregivers it is proposed that the measures can be taken with retroactive effect on 1 March 2020. I have the honour to be, Sire, Van Your Majesty, the highly respectful and faithful dieanaan, The Minister of Social Affairs and Health, M. DE BLOCK 14 MEI 2020. - Royal Decision No 21 subject to the temporary adjustment of the conditions of theArticle 1. This Decision lays down temporary measures to be applied to the compulsory medical treatment to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and to the consequences thereof. Section 1.The measures in Annex 12. Section 10. - Logopedists Art. 16. The measures in Annex 13. Section 11. - Kinesitherapists Art. 17. The measures in Annex 14. Section 12. - Opticians Art. 18. The measures in Annex 15. Section 13. - Orthopedists Art. 19. The orthopedists are subject to the measures in Annex 16. Section 14. - Dentists Art. 20. The measures in Annex 17. Section 15. - Nurses Art. 21. The measures in Annex 18. Section 16. - Home nurses: verify the identity of the patient with third-party betaler Art. 22. The measures in Annex 19. Section 17. - Midwifes Art. 23. The measures in Annex 20. Section 18.The period of validity of the fee provided for in the Royal Decree of 11 June 2018 fixing the amount and payment arrangements of the fee for the trainees in medicine of candidate specialists for the year 2018, ends on 30 April 2020. Art. 28. The period of validity within which the allowance provided for in the Royal Decree of 18 February 2005 determining the conditions and the detailed rules according to which the compulsory medical care insurance and benefits grant a financial concession to the physiotherapists for the use of telematics and electronic management of files may be applied for for for as from 30 April 2020, ends on 30 April 2020. Art. 29. The period of expiry of the concession provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 June 2017 determining the conditions and the modalities under which the compulsory medical treatment and benefits grant a financial concession to the general practitioners for the use of telematics and electronic management of medical files may be applied for as from 30 April 2020. Art. 29.