The Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to restrict the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 is hereby added to the Official Opinion of the Council of State. COUNCIL OF STATE Legislation Opinion 69.444/VR of 31 May 2021 on a draft Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19.' On 26 May 2021, the Council of State, the Legislative Section, was requested by the Minister for Internal Affairs, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal to provide an opinion on a draft Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 amending the Ministerial Decision of urgent measures to restrict the distribution of the coronavirus COVID-19. The draft was examined by the United Chambers on 31 May 2021.State, co-ordinated on 12 January 1973, the Legislative Department has had to confine itself to examining the competence of the author of the act, the legal basis, and the question whether the formal requirements to be fulfilled have been met. I. DEVELOPING OF THE DRAFT 1. The draft Ministerial Decision submitted for an opinion amends the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19. The decision to be taken shall enter into force on 9 June 2021. In the note to the Council of Ministers of 25 May 2021, the scope of the draft is set out as follows: "However, the following measures shall enter into force from 9 June 2021, subject to the specific and express conditions laid down in the Ministerial Decision: - establishments belonging to the cultural, festive, sporting, recreational and event sector shall remain open to the public, except in respect of the organisation of the activities permitted in accordance with the Ministerial Decision;a reception or banquet, within the framework of a professional catering activity, is allowed a maximum of 50 customers, unless it is an open terrace. Receptions and banquets may also be organized at home for a maximum of 50 persons, provided that they continue outside and end at 23h30 at the latest. If professional catering activities are carried out the catering rules must be observed, except in the case of home services. In the other cases, compliance with the catering rules is highly recommended. - annual markets, fairs, bridles and non-professional brocante and flea markets can now take place again; - opportunities for participating in organized activities are extended on 9 June and 25 June 2021; - professional sports competitions and professional sports training courses may take place without limitation of the number of participants; a maximum number of persons may participate in non-professional sports competitions and non-professional sports training courses (with the exception of which are allowed outside more persons than within the territory); non-professional sports competitions are prohibited in so far as to take place between the participants;It is therefore urgent to take certain measures and adapt others in the short term. The first set of relaxing measures will enter into force on 9 June 2021. However, in order for the sectors to be able to prepare themselves, the Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2021 should be officially published in the Belgian Official Journal. From that point of view, I would like to ask you to deliver the opinion in the course of Wednesday 2 June 2021.- Articles 181, 182 and 187 of the Law of 15 May 2007 on civil security'. These are the same legal bases as those referred to in the preamble to the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 itself, as well as in the various ministerial decisions amending that Decision, including the Ministerial Decree of 24 April 2021 on which the Minister has issued an Opinion 69.253/AV and the Ministerial Decree of 7 May 2021 on which the Ministerial Decree of 69.305/AV was issued.The fact that, in that context, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs has taken the initiative to establish a draft "pandemic law" ((8) with the aim of providing a clear and coherent legal framework in order to better deal with "epidemic emergencies" in the future, within the meaning of that bill.As the Minister is not entitled to extend or restrict the scope of that provision, the Minister does not consider that the elements of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 listed in the cited Article 26 constitute a legal basis in (inter alia) Article 182 of the Law of 15 May 2007(11), whereas the elements outside that list cannot be regarded as a legal basis in that provision. Moreover, these provisions are often linked to other legislation the compliance of which is controlled by other authorities (such as legislation relating to welfare at work) or which refer to other bodies of the Federal, Regional or Local Government. Moreover, compliance with certain provisions which have not been re-established in Article 26 is very difficult and therefore also unsuitable in the field.It is therefore not necessary to examine whether the proposed provisions are based on other provisions. 8.1. The proposed Article 6 (2), first paragraph, 1°, of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 (Article 3 of the draft) lays down as a condition for the professional exercise of catering activities, except in the case of services at home, inter alia to be provided to staff "an appropriate training." The proposed Article 8 (1), first paragraph, 1°, (Article 5 of the draft) and the proposed Article 15 (4), fifth paragraph, 1°, (Article 11 of the draft) contain a similar arrangement. The same designed provisions also provide for the obligation of customers, visitors, attendees, staff and third parties "to inform them in good time and clearly about the preventive measures in force]. Such an obligation may still be regarded as a condition relating to a prohibition of place or movement within the meaning of Article 182 of the Law of 15 May 2007.Article 21 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 introduces a processing of personal data resulting from Article 22 of the Constitution.Article 7 (5) of the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German Community and the Common Community Commission concerning the transfer of necessary information to the federated entities, the fifth paragraph of the cooperation agreement of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German Community and the Joint Community Commission concerning the transfer of necessary information to the federated entities, the local authorities or police services with the purpose of maintaining the compulsory quarantine or testing of travellers from foreign zones in which a quarantine or testing is required upon arrival in Belgium is as follows:In particular, with regard to a suspected or affected traveller, on a case-by-case basis, the least burdensome and invasive medical examination with which the public health objective of preventing the international spread of disease would be achieved. 3. Travellers shall not be subject to medical examination, vaccination, prophylaxis or health [s] measure pursuant to this Arrangement without their prior informed consent or that of their parents or guardians, except as provided for in Article 31, second paragraph, and in accordance with the laws and international obligations of the State Party which is a Party. 4. Travellers who are required to be vaccinated or to receive a prophylaxis under this Arrangement, or their parents or guardians, shall be informed of the risks arising from vaccination or non-vaccination and whether or not using the prophylaxis in accordance with the laws of the State which is a Party.On the basis of its broad competence in the field of sanitary police, civil protection and civil security, the federal government has in the past imposed measures in the field of health police, civil protection, civil protection and/or civil security. In this respect, the general meeting of the Department of Law in the same opinion 68.936/AV stated that: "32. On the basis of its broad competence in the field of sanitary police, civil protection and civil security, in the past the federal government has adopted measures in the field of health police, civil protection and/or civil security in the field of civil security in the field of public health policies which have been subject to the jurisdiction of the communities and/or the regions concerned.It is not for the State to determine, in the light of the nature of the facts on which it supports, the seriousness of those facts and of the circumstances of the case and of the circumstances of the case, that the measure which it proposes to take is an appropriate, appropriate and proportionate measure: in the light of the nature of the facts on which it is based, it is for the State to satisfy itself that there is a sufficiently direct and close link between, on the one hand, the conduct of the case and, on the other hand, the distortion of the public order which it proposes to take in order to justify the measure.Finally, as a third condition, the Federal Government must also ensure that it is strictly limited to what can be included in its powers of sanitary police, civil protection or civil security and does not merely exercise the substantive powers of another government. It is not for the Federal Government, in the context of combating an epidemic emergency on the basis of the powers of administrative police, civil protection and/or civil security, to take measures without a sanitary dimension. For example, the Federal Government cannot impose a mouth mask obligation and a social distance requirement in schools and museums, in so far as it is a proportionate and necessary measure (rand number 33), and, in extreme circumstances, even decide to close them(29). However, in this case, it cannot impose on the communities alternative schemes for education and cultural experience, such as the obligation to provide for distance learning or to be excluded from an online museum offer, or to exclude them.Article 36 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) ', read in conjunction with Article 57 (1) (c), recital 96 of that Regulation and Article 2 (2) of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data', provides for an obligation to the supervisory authority, in this case the Data Protection Authority referred to in the Law of 3 December 2017 to consult the Data Protection Authority', when drawing up a proposal for a legislative measure to be adopted by a national parliament, or a regulatory measure relating to processing thereof.In that case the communication to the Commission is still required to account for the failure to comply with the prescribed time limit. 14. If the text submitted to the Council of State as a result of the fulfilment of the aforementioned formal requirements would be subject to further amendments, the amended or additional provisions, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the Coordinated Laws of the Council of State, shall be submitted to the Legislative Section. VII. GENERAL NOTES A. Limitation of Fundamental Rights and Equality 15. The General Meeting of the Section for the Law referred to in the abovementioned Opinion 69.253/AV recalls the following:ont toutes pour objectif de ralentir et de rendre gérable la résurgence et la propagation exponentielle du coronavirus, compte tenu également de l'apparition et de la circulation de variants. De la sorte, l'arrêté ministériel attaqué un nouveau point d'équilibre déterminé par la partie adverse, en tenant compte de l'évolution de la situation sanitaire et notomment de l'évolution du nombre d'infections, des hospitalisations, du taux de positivité et du taux de reproduction, afin de continue à limiter la propagation du virus.certains secteurs au regard des exigences sanits et économiques. Le Ministre de l'Intérieur dispose d'un large pouvoir d'appréciation discrétionnaire pour recher un équilibre entre des intérêts distincts et souvent conflictuels, afin de parvenir à une décision qui sert l'intérêt général et il n'appartient pas au Conseil d'Etat de substitute son appréciation à celle du Ministry sur la stratégie à suivre dans le cadre la gestion d'une pandémie. (...) S'agissant du principle de proportionnalité, il conviant de rappeler que l'arrêté ministériel attaqué consacré un nouveau point d'équilibre tenpte tent de l'évolution et la pandétération de la pandécétérétération de la métération à la métérêtérie.On the one hand, in the context of the concept of "contests pas que l'arrêté ministériel attaqué poursuit un objectif de santé publique et qu'il s'agit là d'un objectif légitime. S'il est exact que la santé publique doit s'entendre aussi bien de la santé physique que de la santé mentale, il sorret du préambule de l'arrêté attaqué que la partie adverse a bien eu égard, dans le cadre de son appréciation de la proportionalité de l'ensemble de ces mesures, à la problématique de la santé mentale pusqu'elle décide de procédération à la révouversions professions de contact les prestations de service pourront pourcément contrier au bien-tremente mens à cherque à cécécé.In addition to the differences in treatment that can justify the design between comparable situations, but also, and where appropriate, justify that the design situations which are not comparable, are treated in an identical manner.(36) 17.1. Thus, without being exhaustive, several differences in treatment that the designer must be able to justify. 17.2. First of all, it follows from the designed Article 6 (2) (Article 3 of the design) that the establishments belonging to the hospitality sector, receptions or banquets may organize for up to 50 customers - or more in the case of receptions or banquets organized on an open terrace (designed Article 6 (2), fourth paragraph) - however, with the exception of the conditions laid down in the designed Article 6 (2), first paragraph, shall not be imposed but only recommended in the case of the provision of services to the home.However, it does not apply to the other establishments for indoor sports, nor to establishments belonging to the cultural, festive, recreational and event sector. To the question of whether there is a relevant justification for the difference in treatment, the agents have the following answer to the question: "As far as fitness is concerned, this is an activity in which a lot of aerosols are used, given the nature of the activity (which does not involve mouth masking). In the catering industry there is a lot of talking, eating and drinking (without mouth masking) which is also likely to be consumed, it is also possible to consume alcohol.- training courses, while that number is limited to non-professional sports competitions and trainings.At the request to give a relevant justification for the difference in treatment thus created, the agents replied as follows: "However, in the light of the health objective, it is not clear which reasons justify the difference in treatment achieved.The author of the design must therefore be able to demonstrate that that difference in treatment is reasonable. 17.4.3.The latter then shows that the non-professional competitions for combat sports, in contrast to those for other sports disciplines, are prohibited.At the request there is a relevant justification for the difference in treatment that the agents have the following answer: "Gardensports in which there is very close physical contact, which is still a high degree of contagion.However, such a prohibition is not imposed on the other activities listed in Article 15 or in other articles of the present draft. On the request that an adequate justification be given for the difference in treatment resulting therefrom, the agents replied: "The prohibition of touching objects may be justified from an epidemiological point of view, where it is not appropriate that an item (e.g. a cross) should be touched by all participants in a service of honour. The prohibition on physical contact between persons as currently designed may be further qualified by a reference to the groups of 4, where a group of 4 during a service of honour does not have to keep the distance between themselves." As regards the prohibition on physical contact of objects by different persons, the measure in the reply of the agents is justified from an epidemiological point of view, however, it does not specify the reasons for which prohibition only applies to the activities referred to in Article 15."The nature of the activity' means that it is not necessary to respect the distance of 1.5 metres or to wear a mouth mask if this makes it impossible or particularly difficult to exercise the activity. This includes, for example, a singer or singer who is allowed to sing during a performance without a mouth mask or a swimmer who does not wear a mouth mask during swimming. This also applies, for example, to footballers who cannot respect the distance of 1.5 metres during playing a match. (...) The maximum number of 4 persons may be waived if, for example, a room is hired to play a football match or to do a scouting activity. In these cases, it is not intended to form groups of 4. (...) The maximum number of 4 persons cannot be used for the purpose of the activity.It follows from Article 1 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 that, depending on the definition thus contained in the Ministerial Decision, the author of the draft act must consider whether it is appropriate to make amendments to the terms of Article 1 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 to include a definition of the concept of "social distancing" in the definition of the concept of "social distancing" in the wording of Article 1 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020.Article 29 of the present Ministerial Decision provides that provisions of a Protocol or Guide which are less stringent than the rules of the Ministerial Decision are to be excluded from the scope of this Protocol. 20.2. Such references to Protocols already appear in several places in the current text of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. In Opinion 69.253/AV, the General Assembly of the Legislative Section has already noted the following on the legal scope of the Protocols: "20.2. (...) Although the Delegate denies the regulatory power of the Protocols, it is clear that they may give effect to the regulatory provisions of the Protocol'. Moreover, it is not possible to see why the draft Article 29, first paragraph, of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 does not apply the provisions of Protocols (or guides) which are not applicable to them if they are not necessarily and generally binding.In addition, Article 29 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, which provides that provisions of a protocol or a guide which are less strict than the rules of this Decision, are not to be applied in order to decide that they are not regulatory. In any event, several of the provisions currently designed do not provide that those protocols have the same effect as the ministerial decision of 28 October 2020, since otherwise the use of the term "unreduced" would be pointless. The Council of State must also observe that the ambivalence which it criticizes is not yet remedied, on the contrary.In addition, the declaration of 7 May 2021 in turn refers to documents such as "the generic guide, possibly supplemented by measures of the sector guide'. The author of the draft must, therefore, include in the design itself the conditions for the return time envisaged by him, rather than merely a reference to a declaration stating those conditions in a manner which is not consistent with the wording of the legal rules. As regards the indication of the "generic guide" and the "sector guide" shall be referred to observations 20.1 to 20.3. 22.1. Under the terms of the first paragraph of Article 8, first paragraph, 4°, (Article 5, paragraph 4, 4°, (Article 11 of the draft), the establishment shall organise itself in such a manner as to ensure that the consistency of the rules of application of the principle of the principle and the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle.In addition, such a reference may lead to legal uncertainty. On the other hand, if reference is made to binding police measures which local authorities may take, the reference to them is pointless, because those measures are applicable on their own and must be applied in addition to the provisions of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. VIII. INQUIRY OF THE DRAFT DISPOSITIONF Article 1 23.1. It is not clear what the scope of the proposed Article 2 (1) and (1) (a) of this Decision is. For example, the intention is that the proposed Article 2 (1) paragraph 1 of this Decision shall apply to "undertakings, associations and services, including the following Article 2, paragraph 1, of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, and services necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the Nation and the needs of the population referred to in Annex 1 to this Decision."Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'undertaking' or 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' or 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' or 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company' is to be interpreted as meaning that the term 'company'.However, only in July, if the epidemic situation permits, the mandatory nature of telework. The month of June is now considered to be a transitional period. Vigilability in respect of the employee means that he/she may refuse the offer of the employer who organizes a return moment." The proposed provision should therefore be clarified in that sense. For example, the words "on a voluntary basis" may be replaced by the words "in consultation" with which the mutual agreement of the two parties is more clearly expressed. 25. Luidens the proposed Article 2, § 1a, second paragraph, may be replaced by a maximum of 20% of the persons employed in the undertaking at the same time at the workplace. The term "undertaking" shall be defined in Article 1, 1°, of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 as "any natural or legal person pursuing an economic purpose in a sustainable manner."The definition thus set out in the preamble does not correspond to that which is still stated in the decision itself. It is even contrary to the principle of legal uncertainty. The Legislative Section has already stated in its Opinion 69.305/AV(44) in this respect: "In view of the fact that this concept is compatible with the question or may be derogated from the first paragraph of Article 6 (3) and that sanctions may also be imposed in the event of failure to comply with that concept, it is appropriate to provide a clearer definition of the concept of "house" for any indication of that concept in the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, taking into account also the cases resulting from new family forms such as newly constituted families or other situations where the persons concerned are not strictly living under the same roof."Article 6 (1) (1) of the draft Directive. 30. The agents stated that the reference to a "surgical" mouth mask in the design Article 6 (2), first paragraph, 11°, shall be deleted, so that only a "mouth mask" is required. 31. The terms of Article 6 (2), third paragraph, shall require the use of a CE-marked air quality meter (CO2) in the catering sector, except on an open terrace."Unless it is an open terrace, a reception or banquet is only permitted for a maximum of 50 customers." The agents explained the concepts used as follows: "Les deuxtermes sont utilisés dans leur sensuel à savoir : - Réception : Réunion de personnes invitées, souvent à caractère mondain. - Banquet : Repas d'apparat, rassemblemblellant de nombreux convives pour célébrer un événement important. However, the question arises whether the reference to the "caractère mondain" or the "événement important" does not lead to uncertainty and thus to legal uncertainty, as well as to difficult treatment, is the actual intention that a meal ("repass") for a non-important event cannot be organized for a maximum of 50 customers.without prejudice to Article 25," the agents confirmed that the "two separate rules" are, on the one hand, a duty to mask in public spaces and, on the other hand, a mere recommendation to use "other" personal protective equipment "if the rules of social distancing cannot be complied with"; however, the agents further stated that the use of mouth masks could not be covered by "the rules of social distancing." (45) The current Article 25 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 states: "Every person, with the exception of children up to and including 12 years, is obliged to cover the mouth and nose with a mouth mask or any other alternative substance in the case of a substance in the following places: 1° the stores and the shopping centres, 3° the auditoria, with the exception of the cases referred to in Article 23 (2) above, with the exception of children up to and for 12 years, is obliged in any case to cover the mouth and nose with a mouth mask or any other alternative in the following places:On the basis of the provisions of this Decision which provide for this obligation to be extended to other personal protective equipment, the authorised persons stated that, for the purposes of Article 25 of the Decision to be amended, but also other measures such as, for example, wearing gloves, "this may, inter alia, be the exception provided for in Article 8 (1), first paragraph, 3°, at present, raises the question of its relationship with the current Article 25. Furthermore, the question arises as to why the regime for the use of a mouth mask or other personal protective equipment is less stringent when the "rules of social distancing" cannot be complied with than when those rules can be complied with. In the first case, only a recommendation is made and no obligation is not required. The author of the draft must submit the proposed provision to a new examination in the light of these findings. 35.Article 15, paragraph 9, or of trade fairs which are organized "outside" (Article 15, paragraph 10). This licence system does not create any particular difficulty in the light of Article 26 of the Constitution, since it is always "open air" within the meaning of Article 15, paragraph 8, of the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Brussels Convention.However, it must be borne in mind that such measures may in no case consist of preventive measures other than those prohibited by the Constitution. In that regard, reference may be made to Article 19 (freedom of expression) (49), Article 24 (1) (freedom of education), Article 25 (freedom of printing press), Article 26 (freedom of meeting) (50) and Article 27 (freedom of association) of the Constitution. According to the Administrative Justice Division of the Council of State, "preventive measures" are characterized by the fact that they impose certain conditions or formalities which must be satisfied before the right in question can be exercised in practice, apart from the question of whether freedom is abused or may be exercised, and that failure to comply with the conditions laid down by the law constitutes an offence'.In that regard, it follows from Article 19 and 24 (1) of the Constitution that, in determining the measures provided for in Article 5 (1) of the preliminary draft law, it is necessary to examine whether, in the absence of any assessment of the scope of the principle of public policy or of private property, it is not possible, in the absence of such a measure, for the purposes of that provision, for the purposes of the principle of public policy, to determine whether, in the absence of such a measure, it is contrary to the principle of public policy or of public policy, to determine whether, in the absence of such a measure, it is contrary to the principle of public policy or to the principle of public policy, it is contrary to the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of proportionality of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle of the principle.However, the examination shows that, in spite of the interpretation thus provided, the present texts do in fact provide a regulatory scope to the calculation methods contained in the CIRM; at this point, however, reference is made to the observations 20.1 to 20.3. That solution, which, moreover, is in accordance with what is required by Article 26 of the Constitution in order to avoid the constitutional prohibition on the introduction of an arrangement of prior licences for meetings not held in the open air, must be included in the underlying texts, which implies that the CERM and the CIRM in question must be defined in accordance with Article 26 of the Constitution.Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Full Court on 18 March 2002.of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission on the transfer of data to the federated entities, the local authorities or police forces with the aim of maintaining the compulsory quarantine or testing of travellers from foreign zones subject to quarantine or testing upon arrival in Belgium', http://www.raadvst-consetat.be/dbx/advices/68978.pdf, note 24. (18) In order for the International Health Regulation to become legal in character, it is not sufficient for it to be published in the Belgian Official Journal and even to be the subject of the Protocol of 5 November 2018 between the Federal Government and the governments referred to in Articles 128, 130 and 135 of the Constitution to establish the generic structures for the management of health crises for health and their operation for the purposes of the International Health Regulation (2005), and Decision No 1082/2013/EU on serious cross-border threats to health' (B.RvS 53.018/VR of 13 May 2013 on a draft royal decree containing the health control of international traffic', remark 9; adv. RvS 66.387/1/V of 29 August 2019 on a draft which led to the Royal Decree of 11 December 2019 on the modalities for manipulating and preserving polioviruses of type 2', remark 7.5; GwH 15 February 2009, No 2/2009, B.5.2. (23) Opinion 68.936/AV, comments 10 and 11. (24) Footnote 74 of the quoted opinion: The principle of federal loyalty implies for each government the obligation not to disturb the balance of federal construction as a whole and not to harm the interests of the other entities. The federal loyalty concerns more than the mere exercise of powers that should be exercised in what spirit. (GwH 18 March 2021, No 47/2021, on B..11; see also: J. Vanpraet, "The general principles of the division of jurisdiction of the other entities in question'.Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 25 March 2020.The fact that it is not possible for a Member State to apply the principle of non-discrimination laid down in Article 21 (7) to have a negative test result carried out at the earliest 72 hours before departure from a territory classified as a red zone to be regarded as a condition for entering the territory which falls within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government (Article 21 (7) effectively states that the carrier is obliged to refuse entry if such negative test result is not available). The amendments made to Article 15 (3) to 5°, which may be regarded as a condition for entering the territory which is subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Government (Article 21 (7) effectively states that the carrier is required to refuse entry if such a negative test result is not available to Belgian territory.Article 15, §§ 1 and 4, paragraph 5, 4° (Article 11 of the draft). (39) There is also reference to note 34. (40) The proposed Article 13, third paragraph (Article 9 of the draft) and the designed Article 15, § 2, second paragraph, 3° (Article 11 of the draft). (41) Adv.RvS 69.305/AV, comments 21 and 22. (42) The agents provided the following - most recent version - of this guide: - FR: https://economics.fgov.be/sites/default/files/Files/Publications/Coronavirus-guide-commons.pdf; - NL: https://economics.fgov.be/sites/default/files/Files/Files/Coronavirus-opening-trade.pdf. (43) https://work.belgie.nl/new-of-the-social-partners-on-the-prevention-ofthe-prevention-ofthe-convention-ofthe-ofthe-Onazis's comment 5 (http://www.raadvst-consetat.be/dbx/advices/52523.pdf) (49) Footnote 163 of the abovementioned opinion: In relation to freedom of expression, Article 19 of the Constitution only allows the "punishment of crimes committed on the occasion of the use of that freedom of expression'. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, the Constitutional Court has ruled that that provision of the Constitution does not preclude the exercise of freedom of expression, such as the exercise of public order and the protection of others' rights (GwH 22 October 2003, B.5.1 and B.6.3).(51) Footnote 165 of the above-mentioned opinion: RvS 18 May 1999, No 80.282, Van der Vinck and Others; see the same sentence, RvS 7 August 2000, No 89.216, Van Rossen. (52) Footnote 166 of the aforementioned opinion: Opinion RvS 62.325/2/VR of 2 May 2018 on a preliminary draft decision which led to the Decree of the French Community of 28 June 2018 amending the Decree of 7 November 2013 determining the higher education landscape and the academic organisation of the studies and the transparency of the non-recognized institutions (http://www.raadvst-contat.be/dbx/advices/62325.pdf). (53) Footnote 167 of the aforementioned opinion: GwH 22 October 2003, No 136/2003. (54) Footnote 168 of the cited opinion: As regards the suspension of the Constitution, see page 8.55.