The Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services in those rates with regard to measures in support of the Catering Service REPORT TO THE KONING Sire, this draft Royal Decree inserts in Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates (hereinafter: "Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970") a temporary provision under which restaurant and catering services, excluding the provision of alcoholic beverages, are subject to the reduced rate of 6 pc. For some time now, the National Security Council (NVR) has been making our country a major health crisis by virtue of the global pandemic of the COVID-19 virus, better known as the Coronavirus. This pandemic has forced the Government to take various forceful measures restricting the individual and collective freedoms.This measure also covers the restaurant and catering services referred to in Article 18 (1), second paragraph, 11°, of the VAT Code and in Section I of Table B of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970. In Article 6 (1) of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 of 15 March 2011 laying down measures for the implementation of Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax (hereinafter "the Supplementary Regulation No 282/2011'), those services are defined as follows: "The provision of food or beverages or both is no more than a part of the overall provision of the service aspect. Restaurant services are provided in the premises of the service provider and catering services are provided in such services other than in the premises of the service provider.'In particular, those drinks which are also subject to the tariff of 6 pc. if they are the subject of a supply without any additional services (such as fruit and vegetable juices, milk and soya drinks, coffee, tea, mineral water, soft drinks,...). In so far as restaurant and catering services relate to the provision of alcoholic beverages, the application of the reduced rate of 6 pc. is not possible. For the purposes of this provision, beers of an actual alcoholic strength exceeding 0,5% vol. and other beverages of an actual alcoholic strength of more than 1.2 % vol. are considered to be eligible for the exclusion of category X, table A, of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 and which for that reason are subject to the rate of VAT of 21 pc. as they are subject to a supply of goods without additional services.The Belgian authorities have adopted, on 20 July, in the context of the health crisis linked to the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus, and in particular the compulsory closure of the catering establishments, the following: this exceptional measure is therefore limited in time; it is, in accordance with Article 1 of this draft, applicable until 31 December 2020. Article 2 In accordance with Article 2 of this draft, this decision has effect with effect from 8 June 2020, i.e. on the day on which the catering activities in Belgium can resume. In this way, the taxable persons concerned can immediately benefit from this measure. I have the honour to be Sire, Van Your Majesty, the very respectful and very faithful provider, the Vice-Eerste Minister and Minister of Finance, A. DE CROO 8 JUNE 2020.- that this very exceptional measure, which is fully justified from a health point of view, will necessarily have serious economic consequences for the sector concerned; - that measures should therefore be taken without delay to support this sector from the start of its activity foreseen by the Government on 8 June 2020 and that the appropriate reduction of the VAT rate on the restaurant and catering services should therefore enter into force as soon as possible in order to have its full effect; In view of the impact analysis of the regulations carried out in accordance with Articles 6 and 7 of the Law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification; On the proposal of the Vice-First Minister and Minister of Finance and on the opinion of the Ministers meeting in Council, Hebben We decided and decide: Article 1. In the Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and classification of the goods and services at those tariffs, an article 1st/1 is inserted: "Art. 1st/1.