The Decree on the ratification of the decisions of the Walloon Government of special powers taken in the context of the management of the health crisis during the second Gulf of COVID-19 for the matters referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution (1) The Walloon Parliament has adopted and We, Walloon Government, confirm the following: CHAPTER I. - Overall provision Article 1. This Decree governs, in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution, matters referred to in Articles 127 (1) and 128 (1) of the Constitution. CHAPTER II. - Training and "IFAPME" Art. 2. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Decree of 29 October 2020 granting special powers to the Walloon Government to respond to the second Gulf of the health crisis COVID-19 for matters governed by Article 138 of the Constitution, the decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 59 of 1 December 2020 concerning various provisions taken in the framework of the plan rebond COVID-19 on vocational training, pursuant to Article 138 of the Constitution.In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Decree of 29 October 2020 granting special powers to the Walloon Government to respond to the second wave of the health crisis COVID-19 for matters governed by Article 138 of the Constitution, the decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 63 of 10 December 2020 concerning the exemption of subsidies on social action and certain rules relating to the integration of newcomers ("SPW') Internal affairs and social action is hereby confirmed. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Decree of 29 October 2020 granting special powers to the Walloon Government to respond to the second wave of the health crisis COVID-19 for matters governed by Article 138 of the Constitution, the decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 68 of 16 December 2020 to include an Article 47/17bis in the Walloon Social Action and Health Code in relation to the vaccination of adults COVID-19 for the purposes of the COVID-19 will be adopted by the Belgian Government of 14 May 2021. The Minister of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State2021. Discussion. Vote.