The Royal Decree extending the period provided for in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020 providing exceptional measures for institutions for occupational retirement provision within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic REPORT TO THE KONING Sire, We have the honour to submit to Your Majesty a draft royal decision for signature with the aim of extending the period during which institutions for occupational retirement provision (IBPs) may benefit from a number of relaxations provided for by the Law of 14 May 2020 laying down exceptional measures for institutions for occupational retirement provision under the COVID-19 pandemic. These relaxations included the organisation of general meetings and meetings of the operational bodies of the IORPs. These relaxations had their effect from 1 March 2020 and applied until 30 September 2020.However, if the present Royal Decree, which provided for an exception to the above regulatory framework and statutes, did not have retroactive effect on the activities of the bodies of the IORPs, then all decisions and actions of the IORPs made and made since 30 September 2020 could possibly be invalid and could be challenged in law on that purely procedural ground. 4. It must be borne in mind that the bodies of IORPs were in a state of manifest force majeure, since they were legally obliged to comply with the COVID-19 measures. 5. This situation is a factual situation which must be regularized, and this in order to avoid any legal disorder. In this context, legal certainty and individual rights are respected and for the following reasons: 1. All the organs of the IORPs and all the members of those bodies are treated in the same manner. 2. All the organs of the IORPs and all members of those bodies remain in a state to exercise their powers and prerogatives fully.The Minister of Finance, V. VAN PETEGHEM The Minister of Pensions, K. LALIEUX COUNCIL OF STATE SECTION Legislation Opinion 69.328/1 of 25 May 2021 on a draft royal decree extending the period referred to in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020 laying down exceptional measures for institutions for occupational retirement provision under the COVID-19 pandemic' On 3 May 2021, the Council of State Department of Legislation was requested by the Minister of Pensions to give an opinion within a period of 30 days on a draft royal decree extending the period referred to in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020 laying down exceptional measures for institutions for occupational retirement provision under the COVID-19 pandemic'. The draft was examined by the first Chamber on 18 May 2021. The Chamber was composed of Marnix VAN DAMME, Chamber Chairman, Bert Thys and Wouter PAS, State Councils, Michel TISON and Johan PUT,asses, Ms.Article 6 of the Law of 14 May 2020 provides that the Governing Council may take any decision by unanimous decision (written) and that it or any other operational body may also meet by means of any means of telecommunications permitting joint deliberation. In accordance with Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020, the said provisions were applicable during the period from 1 March 2020 to 30 September 2020. 2. For the draft, the legal basis may be found in Article 7, third paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020. This provision authorises the King to adapt, by a decision adopted in the Council of Ministers, the final date specified in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020, to be applied only to the benefit of the scheme. For as long as a text is in force, the date of expiry of the latter provision in Article 7, second paragraph, second paragraph, and second paragraph, of Article 6 of the Law of 14 May 2020 shall not be suspended by the date of its entry into force.The report to the King states that the purpose of the proposed decision is "to extend the period during which the institutions for occupational retirement provision (IBPs) may benefit from a number of relaxations introduced by the Law of 14 May 2020 (...). These relaxations included the organisation of general meetings and meetings of the operational bodies of the IORPs'. The reason for the extension of the period for these relaxations is referred to "the persistent sanitary crisis and the mandatory rules imposed in that framework to combat the coronavirus COVID-19" and is explained by the expiry date of 30 September 2020 provided for in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law of 14 May 2020. The authorised representative justifies the retroactive effect as follows: "We consider that the retroactive effect of the draft royal decision extending the period provided for in Article 7, second paragraph, of the Act of 14 May 2020 providing for exceptional measures for the institutions for occupational retirement provision in the COVID-19 pandie (hereinafter the Law of 14 May 2020) cannot be accepted by theThe Board of Directors of the Boards of Directors, the operational bodies such as investment committees and social committees, and the general meetings (which usually take place in the first quarter of the civil year). 3. The regulatory framework of the IORPs, in particular the Law of 27 October 2006 on the supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (hereinafter WIBP), its implementing decisions and the regulations and transit letters issued by the supervisory authority FSMA, would require all the decisions and acts of the IORPs made and/or assumed for the activities of the IORPs physical meetings. However, if the draft KB, which at this point provided for an exception to the regulatory framework and statutes, had no retroactive effect, all the decisions and acts of the IORPs made and made since 30 September 2020 could be invalid for the purposes of the activities of the IORPs.On the basis of Article 7, second paragraph, of the Law on supplementary pensions (in particular the Supplementary Pensions Act of 28 April 2003 for employees and the Programme Act (I) of 24 December 2002 for self-employed persons, and their implementing decisions) and on the financing and supervision of IORPs (in particular the WIPP and its implementing decisions). It is this substantive regulation which lays down the scope of the substantive action of the bodies of IORPs. If sponsors, members or the supervisory authority would have problems with the decisions and/or acts taken, then their rights and remedies at their disposal are safeguarded.laying down exceptional measures for institutions for occupational retirement provision under the COVID-19 pandemic shall be postponed to 31 December 2021 as regards the application of the provisions of Article 5, first paragraph, 2° and 3°, and Article 6 of the aforementioned Law of 14 May 2020. Article 2. This Decision shall have effect from 30 September 2020. Article 3. The Minister responsible for Finance and the Minister responsible for Pensions shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision, each as regards him. Data in Brussels, 29 June 2021. FILIP Van Koningswege: The Minister for Finance, V. VAN PETEGHEM The Minister for Pensions, K. LALIEUX