Invitation to candidates 1 Regulations pursuant to Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2007 laying down the rules by which officials of the general tax administrations are made available to the Procurator of the Kings or to the Auditor of the Labour Office in order to assist them in the performance of their duties may be made available to: -3 Dutch-speaking officials in the field of office of the Court of Appeal of Brussels; -4 officials in the field of office of the Court of Appeal of Antwerp. This appeal to candidates is intended to complete the 7 vacant relations and, where appropriate, to establish a reserve."Their own growth is actively planning and managing in accordance with the organization's expectations, respecting confidentiality, fulfilling commitments and avoiding any form of partiality. "The official made available must be able to express himself orally clearly and intelligibly. Technical competences "The theoretical and practical knowledge of fiscal matters, in particular Pb, VenB or VAT. Practical knowledge of the Typologies on large scale fraud. "Practical knowledge of the interaction between Justice, the police and the tax administrations. "Knowledge of the structure and functioning of the various departments of the FOD Finance and the parks of the relevant administrative bases.If the candidate is absent from one of the selection tests, he will be automatically excluded. Technical competences will be evaluated in advance on the basis of a multi-choice questionnaire. Candidates will be successful if they achieve at least 60%. The technical test score will be 50% included in the final result. Only the first 15 successful candidates for Brussels and the first 20 successful candidates for Antwerp will be invited for an interview. The first selection based on the candidates and the evaluation of the technical skills will be common to all positions. The continuation of the selection, in particular the interview, will be organized by the premises of the respective prosecutor of the Kings or Prosecutor General where the officials will be employed. For the interview a jury will be composed per place; the jury will be led by a member of the staff department P&O of the FOD Finance, a representative of the relevant tax administration, and a representative of the tax administration.Tel.: 03/257.91.81 (steven.dewinter@just.fgov.be) The candidate who passed the selection but was not ranked in a useful order will be included on a reserve list that will remain valid for up to two years. For questions on the status of posting, mail to po@minfin.fed.be with the subject: "detaching parquet." Hans D'HONDT, Chairman of the Management Committee For the consultation of the table, see picture