The decision of the Flemish Government to implement the Decree of 29 May 2020 on the organisation of reporting and contact investigations in the framework of COVID-19 Legal basis This decision is based on: -the Decree of 29 May 2020 on the organisation of reporting and contact investigations in the framework of COVID-19, Article 3, first, second and fifth paragraphs, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, second paragraph. Formal requirements The following formal requirements have been fulfilled: - The opinion of the Council of State, pursuant to Article 3 (1) of the Laws on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, was not sought. The urgent need is justified by the finding that the decree, which gives effect to this decision, was adopted by the Flemish Parliament on 20 May 2020 and is also motivated by the need to detect quickly the persons who have had a risk contact with a COVID-19 infected or suspected person to prevent further spread of COVID-19 and a possible new peak of COVID-19 patients; - The Flemish Supervisory Committee for the processing of personal data on 20 May 2020, and is also motivated by the need to be able to detect the persons who have had a risk contact with a COVID-19 infected person in order to prevent further distribution of COVID-19 and a possible new peak of COVID-19 patients.The contact centre shall be composed of: 1° call center staff; 2° call center supervisors; 3° field agents; 4° field agent supervisors. The agency shall establish the function descriptions of the categories of staff of the contact centre, as set out in points 1° to 4°. Article 3. The agency shall be the controller of the personal data, within the meaning of Article 4, 7) of the General Data Protection Regulation. The agency shall enter into a processing agreement with the association in accordance with Article 28 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.The financial report shall include: 1° the statement of revenue and expenditure on a monthly basis, grouped by type of cost and income and broken down by type of organisation and activity; 2° the list of staff of the contact centre, broken down by function, average employment time and gross annual salary; 3° a numbered list of costs and revenues, with a reference to the beneficiary, the amount, a description and classified by type of cost or revenue. § 3. The content report, mentioned in paragraph 1, and the financial report, mentioned in paragraph 2, shall be supplied quarterly by the association to the agency. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, and the financial report, referred to in paragraph 1, and the financial report, referred to in paragraph 1, and the financial report, referred to in paragraph 2, not later than three months after the date of the contract of the association, shall provide the Agency with information in paragraph 1 and the financial report referred to in paragraph 2, to the Flemish Government.The information contained in Article 5, § 2, § 3, first paragraph, and § 4, first paragraph, of the Decree of 29 May 2020 may also be processed for statistical or policy support purposes in so far as those personal data are anonymised. Article 7. This decision has effect with effect from 11 May 2020. Art. 8. The Flemish minister, responsible for health and residential care, is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 12 June 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister of Welfare, Health, Family and Armed Control, W. BEKE