Decision of the Walloon Government of special powers No 42 concerning the granting of specific aid to families of gas and electricity in the context of the sanitary crisis COVID-19 REPORT TO THE WALSE GOVERNMENT, 1. General presentation On 22 April the Government decided to grant a one-off aid of 100 euros to families equipped with an electricity budget meter and 75 euros to families equipped with a gas budget meter to help them repay the debt which they will have incurred during the lockdown period with their supplier. In this decree it is proposed to grant this aid by means of a new load of the budget meter. The aid may be granted until 30 October. Furthermore, if some families do not recover their aid according to plan, the budget balance will be allocated to the OCMWs, which may grant additional aid to families under the budget meter and who have difficulty to repay their debt to their supplier.By way of derogation from the usual rules, the costs associated with these procedures are limited to a maximum of 5 euros per energy, as specified in paragraph 7. Paragraph 6 provides for the determination by the government of arrangements for the reimbursement of the unpaid amounts of this regularization invoice. Article 3 lays down the conditions under which the distribution system operators must record and report to the administration the number of customers who have received assistance, and specifies this information to the suppliers and the administration. Article 4 provides that the procedures for the transmission of the claims claims of the supplier and social supplier to the administration, the control of these declarations and their payment by the administration are made available to the OCMW's specific means, on the basis of the number of families who benefit from the living wage within their municipality, in order to assist families equipped with a budget meter in the reimbursement of the residual debt of the above regularisation invoice, or precarious families involved in a procedure for the installation of a budget meter before 18 March 2020.The report by Anne VAGMAN, First Hearing Officer, on the basis of Article 84 (1) of the Laws of the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, shall state in particular in the request for an opinion the reasons for its urgency. The statement in the letter of reasons for urgency is as follows: "The reason for the urgency is as follows: Considering the urgent need to grant specific support following the exceptional health crisis in connection with COVID-19 and its consequences in terms of uncertainty, in particular in the field of energy; having regard to the need to reduce legal uncertainty for the network operators concerned, suppliers and families by amending the decision of the Walloon Government of 18 March 2020 concerning the emergency measures on the budget meter.' Since the request for an opinion was submitted on the basis of Article 84 (1) of the Laws of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, theArticle 33a/2 of the Decree of 12 April 2001 provides: "During weekend and evening periods, the supply of electricity by the distribution system operator may not be interrupted as a result of the use of the prepayment function. The Government determines these periods and the recovery arrangements." Article 32 of the Decree of 19 December 2002 reads as follows: " § 1.After consulting the CWAPE, the Government shall ensure the network operators clearly defined, transparent, non-discriminatory public service obligations, the compliance of which shall be verified by the CWAPE. Among other things, the following obligations shall be: 1° the security, regularity and quality of gas supplies; 2° the provision of services to the users: (a) without prejudice to 5°, to the net any final customer which it requests, at the prices published in accordance with Article 15;(b) ensure the supply of gas to the protected customers at the social rate; the difference between the social rate applied to the regional protected customer referred to in Article 31a, § 1, 2° and 3°; and the social rate applied to the federal protected customer referred to in Article 31a, § 1, 1° shall continue to be borne by the network operator;(e) within the limits laid down in the technical regulations and in accordance with the methods of distribution of the economic burden determined by the Government and published in the tariffs of the network operator, any producer requesting it to join and develop and operate an injection module of gas from renewable energy sources at the request of the producer of that gas;According to Article 32, § 1°, the obligation on the part of the Government has not properly assessed the economic motivation of a network expansion. § 3. After the opinion of the CWAPE, the Government shall determine the financial contribution to be made to the respective network manager in order to determine whether the undertaking concerned has correctly assessed the economic motivation of a network expansion. § 3 shall, after the opinion of the CWAPE, determine the obligations which are applicable to the respective network manager.In this legal framework, the draft decision will be numbered and it will be subject to a subsequent decree confirmation in accordance with Article 4 of the Decree of 17 March 2020. The Government will not lose sight of the fact that, in accordance with Article 3 (2) of the Decree of 17 March 2020, the draft decision will not be formally required to the President of Parliament before its publication in the Belgian State Gazette (1). 2. It is proposed, even if Article 3a, Paragraph 1 (2) of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, that it will not formally prescribe it, to publish at the same time as the Decision, a report to the Government setting out the scope and concrete consequences of the decision, to be adopted by the King in its Opinion No 67. 142/AG given on 25 March 2020 on a proposal that the Law of 27 March 2020 "allows the King to take measures in the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 (I) and the Law of 27 March 2020 "to authorize the King to take measures in accordance with Article 67.It is not based on the Decree of 17 March 2020 and is not numbered. It is therefore a normal regulatory decision of the Walloon Government. Although the amendment of the latter by means of a decision of special powers, based on the Decree of 17 March 2020, would not cause the difficulties which the Legislative Section has adopted in its Opinion No 67.142/AG, since it is intended to eliminate two sentences of Article 2 of the Decree of 18 March 2020 and not to amend them by adding new provisions or amending existing provisions to it. Although the amendment of the latter by means of a decision of special powers, based on the Decree of 17 March 2020, would not cause the difficulties which the Legislative Section of its Opinion No 67.142/AG has established in its Opinion No 67.142/AG, since it is intended to remove two sentences of Article 2 of the Decision of 18 March 2020, it would not be possible to amend the provisions of Article 12 of the Act of 18 March 2020 to take into account of the principle of Article 6 of that provision.In paragraph 7, the words "22 avril" shall be replaced by the words "20 mai" and "30 juin 2020" shall be replaced by "30 juin." 2. In the second paragraph, the words "à l'issue de ladite période" shall be replaced by the words "à cette date" shall be replaced by the words "à cette date" (3) Since the draft text on the basis of the Decree of 17 March 2020 must have a legislative value by adding a support mechanism in which the decrees of 12 April 2001 and 19 December 2002 do not provide for the possibility in any case to depart from any other provision in paragraph 4.Opinion No 67.173/2 of 1 April 2020 on a draft which became the decision of special powers No 2 of the Government of the French Community "to implement the Decree of 17 March 2020 granting special powers to the Government in the context of the health crisis in connection with the COOVID-19 coronavirus relating to the establishment of an emergency and support fund', http://www.advist consetat.be/dbx/avis/67173.pdf and Opinion No 67.348/2 of 8 May 2020 on a draft Decision of the Government of the French Community "on the support of meeting and reception centres in the context of the health crisis Covid 19'.The Walloon Government, having regard to the decree of 17 March 2020 granting special powers to the Walloon Government in the context of the sanitary crisis COVID-19, Article 1; Having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 18 March 2020 concerning emergency measures on the budget meter; Having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget, given on 20 May 2020; Having regard to the opinions of the Inspector of Finance, given on 14 April and 7 May 2020; Having regard to the report of 20 May 2020 made in accordance with Article 3 2°, of the Decree of 11 April 2014 implementing the resolutions of the United Nations Women's Conference of the United Nations, adopted in Beijing in September 1995 and integrating the gender dimension into the whole of the regional policies; Having regard to the opinion of the CWAPE, given on 29 May 2020; Having regard to the opinion of the State Council of State given on 2 June 2020 on 2nd, paragraph 1, of the first of the Act of January 2001 on theThe Walloon Government of 30 March 2006 concerning the public service obligations on the electricity market; 2° the decision on the gas market: the decision of the Walloon Government of 30 March 2006 concerning the public service obligations on the gas market 3° the social supplier: the distribution network operator supplying to the protected customer in accordance with Article 26 of the electricity market decree and Article 30 of the gas market decree. Art. 2. a one-off and exceptional aid of COVID-19, amounting to EUR 75 for gas and EUR 100 for electricity, is granted to the resident customer with an active budget meter by means of a budget meter filling. This aid shall be granted until 30 October 2020. Once the customer has put his card back into his budget meter, it shall automatically show a positive balance for electricity and gas, irrespective of the previous balance and/or the amounts previously charged.Where the customer has not paid the amount of his invoice in advance of the expiry date, the supplier shall apply the procedures applicable to the resident customer in the event of non-payment, as set out in Chapter IV, Section II, Articles 29 to 30c for the decision on the electricity market and Chapter IV, Section II, Articles 32 to 33c for the decision on the gas market. By 30 September 2020 at the latest, the Government, acting on a proposal from the Minister responsible for energy, shall, on the advice of CWaPE and in agreement with the suppliers, the distribution system operators and the social associations, lays down the conditions for the reimbursement of the unpaid amounts still linked to the regularisation invoices referred to in paragraph 3 above.The intervention referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out after a social examination by the OCMW, in particular for the invoices referred to in Article 2 (3) of the household, and for the invoices of the unprotected customers supplied by the distribution system operator in accordance with Article 31, § 5 of the electricity market decree or Article 34, § 6 of the gas market decree. Article 5. In Article 2 of the Walloon Government's decision of 18 March 2020 concerning emergency measures on the budget meter, replaced by Erratum on 2 April 2020, the sentences "All ongoing procedures for the placement of a budget meter shall be cancelled. Customers shall continue to be supplied by their supplier in accordance with their current contract." This decision shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Belgian State Gazette. Art. 7. The Minister of Energy shall be charged with the execution of this decision.