Decision of the Walloon Government on a third wave of support programmes for tourist accommodation in the context of the health crisis COVID-19 The Walloon Government, having regard to the Decree of 18 December 2020 on the general budget of the Walloon Region for the financial year 2021, Article 51; Having regard to the report of 12 February 2021, drawn up in accordance with Article 3 2°, of the Decree of 11 April 2014 implementing the resolutions of the United Nations Women's Conference in Beijing in September 1995 and integrating the gender dimension into the whole of regional policies; Having regard to the opinion of the Federal Government on 19 February 2021 and 17 March 2021, having regard to the approval of the Minister of Budget, given on 23 February 2021; having regard to the urgent necessity, motivated by the fact that the measures taken by the Federal Government to restrict the distribution of the coronavirus COVID-19 imply the quota or the suspension of certain activities with a cultural, social, festive, sporting, recreational and recreational character of theThe financial year 2021 lays down the principle that, within the limits of the relevant basic allocations, grants may be granted, including grants cofinanced by European funds, to the extent that the provisions of Article 51 expressly refer to grants relating to the implementation of the Government's decision to support the tourism sector in the framework of the COVID-19 crisis through the Directorate-General for Tourism; having regard to the combined reading of Articles 20 and 78 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions which grant to the Walloon Government a general power to implement decrees; whereas it is appropriate, as established in the caselaw of the Court of Cassation, to use the spirit of the Law to understand this general implementing powers; whereas it is intended in particular to grant aid to undertakings, and in particular to tourist operators, who encounter difficulties as a result of measures to combat COVID-19;any payment of the overnight stay to cover the maintenance costs of the infrastructure of the tourist accommodations managed by an association for social tourism. 3° JF corresponds to the number of calendars of compulsory closure and limited accessibility of tourist accommodations managed by an association for social tourism between 1 January 2021 and 31 March 2021, with a maximum of 90. CHAPTER II. - Support for the campsites authorised by the Commissioner for Tourism for the maintenance costs of their infrastructure during the period of compulsory closure to the public between 1 January and 31 March 2021 as a result of the measures taken by the Federal Government to limit the dissemination of the coronavirus COVID-19, Art. 2. § 1. Within the limits of the available budget appropriations, the Directorate-General for Tourism shall grant aid to the campsites referred to in Article 1, 48° of the Walloon Tourism Code, which are authorised under Article 202.D of the Walloon Tourism Code at the date of entry into force of this Decision, or where the Director-General for Tourism has sent a notice of reception to the tourist accommodations which is confirmed in accordance with Article 1, 48°, ° of the concession to the concession of the concession to theArticle 3. § 1. Within the limits of the available budget appropriations, the Directorate-General for Tourism shall grant aid to the holiday villages referred to in Article 1.D, 53°, of the Walloon Tourism Code, which are admitted under Article 202d of the Walloon Tourism Code on the date of entry into force of this Decision, or where the Directorate-General for Tourism has sent a notice of receipt to the tourist accommodation requesting a licence, confirming that the application for authorisation pursuant to Article 208.BWR § 1, second paragraph, of the Walloon Tourism Code is complete, at the date of entry into force of this Decision, for the costs of maintaining their infrastructure incurred during the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 March 2021 in which they were closed to the public as a result of the measures taken by the Federal Government to limit the dissemination of COVID-19. § 2. The amount of aid referred to in paragraph 1 shall be calculated on the basis of a flat rate of EUR 1 000 per admitted accommodation in holiday villages to the proportion of the days of compulsory closure between 1 January 2021 and 31 March 2021.The amount of the aid referred to in paragraph 1 corresponds to a flat-rate amount of 2,500 per allowed accommodation.The amount referred to in paragraph 1 shall be increased by EUR 500 per disc reception capacity of 10 persons, so that the amount shall be: Maximum reception capacity (persons) Flat-rate amount Increase of 11 to 20 2,500.An application by electronic mail, addressed in the manner and in the form prescribed in the form, is the date of dispatch of the electronic mail. If the information supplied by the beneficiary on the form is incomplete, illegible or irregular, the application may be considered inadmissible by the Directorate-General for Tourism. CHAPTER VII. - Final provisions Article 7. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following its adoption. Article 8. The Minister responsible for Tourism is responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Names, 19 March 2021. For the Government: The Prime Minister, E. DI RUPO The Minister for Civil Service Affairs, Informatics, Administrative Simplification, responsible for Child Allowance, Tourism, Heritage and Safety, V. DE BUE