Special power decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/033 on a compensation premium to compensate the recognized social undertakings affected by the urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 REPORT TO THE BRUSSELS CITY GOVERNMENT To the attention of the members of the Government, The measures announced by the Federal Government on 18 March 2020 to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 include, inter alia, that hospitality and certain commercial matters should be closed down in full or in part. The structures of the social economy are also affected by the deterioration of the economic situation. Taking into account the objective of these structures, an exceptional premium of 4,000 euro was introduced for the social inclusion companies which were obliged to stop their activities completely as a result of the measures taken by the Federal Government. The development of the economic situation linked to the difficulties faced by undertakings should result in the case of the aid which could not be granted to the entities which were not obliged to stop their activities, but which were offered a substantial delay.Government: The Minister of Labour, B. CLERFAYT 4 JUNE 2020. - Special Powers Decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/033 concerning a compensation premium for the remuneration of the recognized social undertakings affected by the urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the decree of 19 March 2020 to grant special powers to the Brussels Capital Government in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, Article 2 § 1; Having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget given on 13 May 2020; In view of the urgent necessity, the need to provide additional support to the social and democratic undertakings facing economic difficulties in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, in order to limit its economic and social consequences; That specific measures were decided on social inclusion undertakings; That the structures of the social economy are also affected by the deterioration of the economic situation; That these structures are to participate very quickly in the implementation of an economic project and to promote the activities of theDe minimis aid, published in the Official Journal of the European Union L352 of 24 December 2013; 4° BEW: Brussels Economy and Employment in the Regional Public Service Brussels. CHAPTER 2. - Form, amount and grant of the aid Art. 2. The Minister grants aid to the recognised social undertakings recognised by application of the decree of 23 July 2018 and is affected by the urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19. The recognised social undertakings whose volume of activities has not been affected by the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be excluded from aid or, where applicable, shall be eligible for aid under the aid referred to in paragraph 1.In the context of the health crisis Covid-19 to compensate undertakings active in the primary production of agricultural products and aquaculture in the field of food in Brussels, Article 4. The recognized social undertaking shall submit the application to BEW and shall use the form which BEW makes available on its website. The approved social undertaking shall attach to its application an accounting certificate to demonstrate the effective reduction of its activities.