Decision of the Walloon Government establishing a Walloon Cell COVID-19 The Walloon Government, having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, as amended, Article 87 (3); Having regard to the Decree of 15 December 2011 on the organisation of the budget and the accounts of the Walloon Government's departments, as amended; having regard to the Decree of 19 November 2015 approving the cooperation agreement between the Walloon Region, the French Community and the French Community Committee on Free Posts in the Ministerial Cabinets; having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 14 September 2019 on the Ministerial Cabinets of the Walloon Government, the Secretariat of the Walloon Government and the "SePAC', as amended; having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 8 June 2017 on the control and internal audit of the budget, the accounting and budgetary control of the services of the Walloon Government, the administrative departments with an independent accounts, the regional undertakings, the Walloon Region and the ombud service of the Walloon Region; having regard to the opinion of the State of 19 June 2017 on theWhereas the imperative factors arising from the health crisis COVID-19 have also been highlighted by the need to establish a specific cell which is fully focused on the pandemic so that a consistent and effective policy can be pursued with the joint actors, including from the other sub-areas; whereas this cell is necessarily composed of, in particular, competence profiles for the management of a sanitary crisis; whereas this structure should also be put into effect urgently in order to meet the objectives of the Walloon Government in the fight against pandemic; whereas, for that purpose, the Minister-President and the Minister of Health should be given a useful advice within the framework of the- staff of level 1 of university level or equivalent; - employees; - experts. § 2. Among the staff of level 1, the cell includes: a coordinator, a crisis manager, a communication officer, thirteen strategic advisers. § 3 Among the staff of the cell are: three secretaries and a logistics employee. § 4. The cell is led by the coordinator. Art. 5. The cell is subject to the decision of the Walloon Government of 14 September 2019 concerning the ministerial cabinets of the Walloon Government, the Secretariat of the Walloon Government and the "SePAC" pursuant to Article 56 of the Decision. Art. 6. The Minister-President and the Minister of Health are responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Article 7. This decision enters into force on the day of its signature. Names, 21 October 2020. For the Walloon Government: The Prime Minister, E. DI RUPO The Minister of Work, Formation, Health, Social Action, Equal Opportunities and Women's Rights, MORREALE