Decision of the Brussels Capital Government implementing Articles 433 to 435 of the Code of Income Tax 1992 The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the Code of Income Tax 1992, as applicable in the Brussels Capital Region, Articles 433, § 1, 1° and 2°, § 2, second paragraph, and § 4, 434, § 1, third paragraph, 1° and 2°, and paragraph 4 as amended by the Ordinance of 28 November 2019; Having regard to the equal opportunities test carried out on 8 January 2020 in accordance with Article 2 of the Ordinance of 4 October 2018 introducing the equal opportunities test; Having regard to the Opinion of the Data Protection Authority, given on 13 March 2020; Having regard to the Opinion of the Council of State, given on 19 February 2020, applying Article 84, paragraph 1, 2° of the Laws of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973;in Articles 433, 1°, 2nd paragraph, and 435, 3rd paragraph, 1°, and 4th paragraph, of the WIB 92, the JOBF. § 2 The statutory or contractual agent referred to in Article 433, § 1, 2°, 434, § 1 and 435 of the WIB 92 shall be responsible for tax matters. He shall be authorized to receive the notification and to make the necessary notifications. In the absence of the accounting officer responsible for tax matters, the power referred to in paragraph 2 shall be exercised by the Deputy accounting officer responsible for tax matters.(b) Description: size, tonnage, engine; (c) Registration number on the Belgian ship register; (c) Nature of the instrument to be drawn up: alienation, mortgage or mortgage on acquisition. Article 4. - Transmission of the notification § 1. The transmission of the notification must be in one of the following ways: 1° by means of a procedure using information technology; or 2° by registered letter. If the notification has been made in accordance with point 1°, the date of transmission of that notification shall mean the date of the functional notification of the notification. § 2. If the same notification is sent by registered letter, the notification shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of the same notification by means of a procedure using computer techniques where the date of transmission of the information differs from the date of the transmission by registered letter. § 3. The following information shall include: 1° Details of the consignor and the consignee;(b) where the information is sent in accordance with paragraph 1, 1°, the date of dispatch of the information shall be understood as the date of receipt of the information. (b) If the information is sent in a registered letter, the information shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of the same information by means of a procedure using information technology when the date of transmission of the information differs from the date of dispatch by registered letter. (b) The information shall include the following information:(c) Amount held by the notary; 9° In the case of mortgage: (a) Amount of the mortgage, (b) Person to whom the property was taxed with a mortgage: - in the case of a natural person: the identification number referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and first names and the full address of the place of residence; - in the case of a legal person: the identification number referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such identification number, the name, legal form and full address of the registered office; (c) Amount held by the notary; 10° In the case of registered creditors: (a) Total amount of the sums due to the registered creditors: - in the case of registered creditors: - in the case of a natural person referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and the full address of the place of residence;The staff member, in which both the private key and the certificate are stored in the memory of a computer in a secure manner; 3° creation of a digital signature using a private key, assigned to the regional tax administration with a certificate issued to that entity, containing both the private key and the certificate in a secure manner in the memory of a computer; 4° creation of an advanced electronic signature as specified in Article 3.11 of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. The technique used shall be determined by GOBF, after consultation with the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notarial. Such data shall be kept by the consignor for a period of 10 years and in the event of dispute within a reasonable period of time.Article 10 - Safeguards of origin, integrity and identical content of messages, notifications and information The origin and integrity of the content of the messages, notifications and information must be ensured by means of appropriate security techniques in the event of transmission by means of a procedure using information technology. The information contained in the messages, notifications and information shall be the same, regardless of whether they are communicated by means of a procedure using computer techniques or by registered letter. Art 11. - Limitation of the scope of application This decision shall apply only to the notaries. Its provisions shall not apply to the persons referred to in Article 439 of the WIB 92. Article 12. - Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on 1 April 2020. Its provisions shall apply only to the instruments which become applicable from 1 June 2020. Art. 13. - Implementation The Minister responsible for Finance shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Brussels, 26 March 2020.