Law on various social measures pursuant to the COVID-19 pandemic (1) FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greeting. The Chamber of Representatives has adopted and We confirm, as follows: CHAPTER 1. Introductory provision Article 1. This Act governs a matter as referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. CHAPTER 2. - Clause relating to the Article 58, second paragraph, of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance and maternity insurance for the benefit of the self-employed and assisting spouses Art. 2. The provision referred to in Article 58 (2) of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance for the benefit of the self-employed and maternity insurance for the benefit of the assisting spouses, is inserted by the Royal Decree of 18 March 2020 amending Articles 53 and 58 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 providing for insurance for the benefit of the self-employed and of the assisting spouses, is not applicable to any period of incapacity from 1 October 2020 to 31 December 2020. Art. 3.In the same law of 4 May 2020, a new Article 15/2 shall be inserted in the form of a new Article 15/2 paragraph 1. By way of derogation from Article 57 (1) of the Act of 4 December 2007, an agreement may, after the procedure referred to in Article 6 has been resumed, be concluded in order to proceed to the vote by letter. Subject to the provisions and derogations provided for in this Chapter, the provisions of the Law of 4 December 2007 on voting by letter shall continue to apply in full. § 2. By way of derogation from Article 57 of the Law of 4 December 2007, the vote by letter may also be authorised under an agreement where the distribution of the Covid-19 coronavirus makes it difficult to organise the voting procedure in safe conditions. § 3. By way of derogation from Articles 42 and 43 of the Law of 4 December 2007, the number of the polling firms and the classification of the voters per bureau may, if necessary, be adjusted to take account of the agreement on a letter.The time limit for the application of the notices referred to in Article 78 (2), last paragraph and paragraph 3, fifth paragraph of the Law of 4 December 2007, shall not be extended by the agreed period of five days as referred to in Article 1." Art. 9. This Chapter shall have effect from 14 October 2020. CHAPTER 4. - Extension of student employment opportunities in the sectors of education and care by neutralising the hours performed during the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 Art. 10. By way of derogation from Article 17bis, paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree Law of 28 December 1944 concerning the social security of workers, it is not necessary to take into account, in the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 in the healthcare sector and in the education, the time taken into account for the calculation of the annual quota of 475 hours.On the basis of the information available to the patient regarding the capacity to take up the hospital, the intervening ambulance service or the intervention team of the "mobile emergency group" function, the competent hospital shall, on the basis of the information available to it in respect of the hospital, inform the patient as far as possible and taking into account the medical condition of the patient, take into account the distance from the destination hospital to the patient's place of residence. § 2. The Federal Health Inspector shall be informed by the hospital of any hospital transport referred to in the first paragraph. § 3. The medical responsibility for any hospital transport as referred to in the first paragraph shall be recorded in the medical file of the patient. Art. 13. In the possession of the FOD Public Health, Safety of the Food Chain and Leef Environment, a special ad hoc committee shall be installed consisting of representatives of the hospital sector, experts and competent officials.The King may, after consulting the Council of Ministers, extend the operation of this chapter for a maximum period of 6 months. CHAPTER 6. - Performing medical activities by persons who are not legally authorised to practice medicine in order to carry out SARS-CoV-2 tests in the framework of the Coronavirus COVID-19 epidemic Art. 17. In the context of the fight against the spread of coronavirus COVID-19, the following medical operations, namely the preparation, handling, storage and transmission of steel samples and collections, may be carried out by persons who, by or under the law of 10 May 2015 concerning the pursuit of the health professions, are not legally authorized: 1° steel withdrawals and collection of secretions and excretions carried out by the Master of the Medical Sciences and Medical Sciences, by the Medical Sciences Committee of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State ofArt. 19. This chapter will enter into force on the day on which this law is published in the Belgian Official Journal and will cease to apply on 1 July 2021. The King may, after consultation with the Council of Ministers, extend the operation of this chapter for up to 6 months. Announce this law, order that it be held with the National Seal and will be published by the Belgian Official Journal. Dates in Brussels, 4 November 2020. FILIP Van Koningswege: De Minister van Werk, P.-Y. DERMAGNE De Minister van Sociale Zaken en Volksgevoorden, Fr. VANDENBROUCKE De Minister van Zelfstandingen, D. CLARINVAL With's Lands seal sealed: De Minister van Werk, V. VAN QUICKENBORNE _______