However, Decision No 2020/012 of the Brussels Capital Government of special powers concerning the introduction of State aid to approved service cheque undertakings and their employees in response to the urgent measures to limit the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 Report to the Brussels Capital Government 1. Contexte Like many other economic sectors, the service cheque sector is hard hit by the health crisis by COVID-19. Initially, the Brussels Capital Government had approved on 19 March 2020 a measure to support the sector of service cheques providing for the payment of a regional intervention (14.60 euro) to the service cheque companies, on the basis of a reference month, in order to compensate for the non-executed performance of the crisis, on condition that the domestic aid was not granted on temporary unemployment (economic or for reasons of force majeure).It is therefore proposed that the household aid which depends on undertakings having their registered office in the Brussels Capital Region and which are active in Brussels should be indirectly supported to the amount of EUR 2.50 gross per hour of temporary unemployment. This aid will be paid by Sodexo to the companies that will ask for this support to pay it to their household aid to their household helpers. Furthermore, companies will have to deduct a farm tax of 26,75% (as for temporary unemployment benefits), which will give a net benefit of 1.83 euros. This seems the most certain way to ensure that the guidelines of the RSVA and of the RSZ after living. Thus, a full-time household aid is to be paid to their household helpers on an average of 1,600 euros per month or 38 hours of full-time employment per week, which will be paid to them on a daily basis.On the basis of Article 6, point IX, 8 °, of the special law of 8 August 1980, which states that it has not had the opportunity to examine whether there is an alternative legal basis for this measure (see also Opinion 67.237 / 1, page 7).The Council of State then asked whether the aid measure for undertakings in the form of the two-euro increased intervention as referred to in Article 11 of the draft regulation should not be notified to the European Commission. In this context, it should be referred to the position of the European Commission (the then competent federal authority) in 2001, which states that the notification should be withdrawn because "the local authorities in the form of the two-euro increased intervention as referred to in Article 11 of the draft regulation is not required to be notified to the Commission. In this context, it should be referred to the position of the European Commission (the then competent federal authority) in 2001 that the notification should not be withdrawn from the market between Member States.- the principle of equality shall, of course, be respected in respect of recognized undertakings meeting the conditions of this Decision, i.e. having their registered office in the Brussels Capital Region. The same remark therefore applies to point 15 of the Opinion. For the information of the Brussels Capital Government: The Minister of Work, B. CLERFAYT 23 APRIL 2020. - Decision No 2020/012 of the Brussels Capital Government of special powers concerning the introduction of State aid to recognized servicecheque undertakings and their employees following the urgent measures taken to restrict the dissemination of the Coronavirus COVID-19 The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to Article 39 of the Constitution; having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions and in particular to Article 6;For the purposes of Article 4 of the Order of 19 March 2020 to grant special powers to the Government as a matter of urgency to obtain the opinion of the Council of State; whereas this urgency is justified by the need to add the aid measures, in the context of the health crisis of COVID-19, to households and undertakings in the sector of service cheques shall be adopted very quickly in order to avoid a social crisis being added to it; whereas, pursuant to Article 4, § 1 and § 2 of the Order of 19 March 2020 to grant special powers to the Brussels Capital Government in the context of the health crisis of COVID-19, this decision shall be officially confirmed by the Brussels Capital Parliament;This Decision shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.(c) The address of its registered office in the Brussels Capital Region; (b) The name, the first name, the address and the INSZ of each employee in temporary unemployment during the period referred to in Article 4, 1°; (b) The total - differentiated per month - of the hours of temporary unemployment indicated for each of them. (b) The approved service cheque undertaking shall also attach to its application the Declaration of Social Risks (ASR) submitted for each worker to the social security scheme, which shall include all hours of temporary unemployment for the period in question. (b) In the event that the Minister has taken the decision referred to in Article 10, if the approved service cheque undertaking is still subject to temporary unemployment in the course of May 2020, it shall, at the latest on 15 June 2020, submit an application for compensation in respect of the aid referred to in Article 4, and report to the company's address on the basis.As soon as the payment of the issuing company has been received by the approved servicecheque undertaking, and after a company tax of 26,75% has been withheld, it is obliged to pay the aid referred to in Article 4 to the beneficiary employee within 15 working days at the latest. Art. 9. § 1. In subsequent checks, the board checks: 1° whether the number of hours of temporary unemployment indicated on the board corresponds effectively to the amounts received under the temporary unemployment of the employees; 2° or the aid due to maintain employment for the employees concerned was correctly paid by the approved servicecheque undertakings employing them. § 2. Without prejudice to an administrative fine of 500 euro per worker to whom the aid due was not paid in full or in part, the aid granted to the approved servicecheque undertaking in respect of the services in question shall be recovered in respect of the amount of what was not paid to the beneficiary worker. In that case, the aid shall be recovered either by the issuing company applying the aid in application of this decision and the amounts payable to the approved servicecheque undertaking in application of the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 concerning the services - either by the undertaking in respect of the undertaking in respect of the undertaking in respect of the undertaking in respect of the undertaking in respect of which is paid in respect of all or in respect of thethe service cheques for the services provided during the period from 18 March 2020 to 30 April 2020. In order to benefit from the increased intervention, the service cheques must be presented to the issuing company for reimbursement by 30 June 2020 at the latest. The services provided during this period must be carried out in accordance with the rules for protection and social distancing laid down by the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19. CHAPTER 4. - Final provisions Art. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Art. 13. The Minister responsible for Work shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Brussels, 23 April 2020. For the Brussels Capital Government: The Prime Minister of the Brussels Capital Region, R. PROPOSES The Minister of the Brussels Capital Government responsible for Work, B. CLERFTYT