This decree of 23 December 2011 concerning the sustainable management of material cycles and waste, Article 22 and Article 32. Form requirement The following form requirement is fulfilled: The inspection of finances gave advice on 19 April 2020. It gives a favourable opinion. Since this draft decision of the Flemish Government does not affect the revenue and expenditure of the Flemish Government, the application of Article 31, § 2, 2° of the decision of the Flemish Government of 17 May 2019 implementing the Flemish Codex Public Finances of 29 March 2019 does not require the agreement of the Flemish Minister of Budget. Reasons Due to the current influx to patients treating hospitals and healthcare institutions for COVID-19, the production of hazardous waste (RMA) has increased significantly in volume. This raises the demand for suitable containers for the collection and transportation of RMA strongly. OVAM has made a distribution of the medical waste on the basis of the risk in RMA and NRMA'sHowever, the covid-19 problem is everywhere that everyone needs the same packaging. What is delivered is not enough to cover the demand of the next few months. The collectors therefore urge to make alternative collection scenarios legally possible during this crisis period. Although the stock of RMA recipients varies widely between hospitals, we also receive from the care sector a signal that it is appropriate to establish an emergency scenario in order to anticipate a possible second peak. The aim of this decision is, as the stock of legal RMA recipients proves insufficient, to make alternative collections and methods possible. In the previously adopted emergency decision (1) certain exceptions to Vlarema regulations are already allowed to be taken on the basis of the principle that at this time it is not sufficient to meet the high demand for RMA recipes in the field.On a yellow background Art. 2. If the Public Waste Company (OVAM) establishes that, despite Article 1, there is still a shortage on the market of RMA packaging, by way of derogation from Article 5.2.3.3, Article 5.2.3.9, Article 5.2.3.10 and Article 5.2.3.13 the collection of dry RMA is carried out in plastic bags in sales containers. This method of collection can only be started by the collector after explicit approval of OVAM. The following conditions must always be met: - Only the RMA that is dry and does not contain any parts that can tear or pierce the bags may be collected via this method - The bags comply with the following specifications: o Color is yellow o Maximum volume of 90 litres o Double weld o Minimum thickness of 75 