Income tax. - Notice setting out the model attestation No 281.86 allowing the required proof of the tax reduction for children's allowance pursuant to Articles 145 35, second paragraph, 4° and 323/2 of the Income Tax Code 1992 (WIB 92) as amended and inserted respectively by the Programme Law of 20.12.2020 (Belgisch Staatsblad, 30.12.2020, ed. 1) and Article 63 18/8, Royal Decree implementing the WIB 92 (KB/WIB 92), as amended by the Royal Decree of 23.12.2021 implementing Articles 145 35, second paragraph, 4° and 323/2, Paragraph 3 of the Income Tax Code 1992 and determining the information to be communicated by the authorities referred to in Article 145 35, second paragraph, 3° of the same Code (Belgisch Staatsblad of 31.12.2021, ed. 1).In order to facilitate the application of the tax reduction, the model certificate 281.86 is currently required for children's allowance as from 1 January 2021. Others are required to issue an attestation of their own attestation or to issue an attestation of their own in order to facilitate the application of the tax reduction, and in order to facilitate the application of the tax reduction, the model certificate 281.86 shall be required for children's allowance as from 1 January 2021.(b) Electronic transmission to the FPS Finance Department of the data contained in the declarations for expenditure made from 1 January 2021, the receiving authorities will not be required to supply the data they have provided by electronic means to the FPS Finance (the practical arrangements are explained below), in order to improve the prior completion of the declaration in the personal income tax system and to reduce the administrative burden on the citizen. The organisations which transmit the data of the attestation electronically shall have the right to use the identification number of the National Registry of the natural persons of both the debtor of the child's allowance and the child concerned to process and communicate it only for the purpose of identifying such transfer (5). The use of this number is essential to avoid errors with persons of the same name. (5) In accordance with Article 323/2, § 4, WIB 92.In addition, an Excel file is available with which the data of the attestations can be easily coded.There is also a short manual with a few examples available in the section "Belcotax-on-web" on the website of the Belcotax-on-web" on the website of the Belcotax-on-web" on the website of the Belcotax-on-web.The extract page of this application is https://financium.be/en/E-services/Belcotax-on-web.The means of access to Belcotax-on-web are also available on the website of the website of the Belcotax-on-web's website is also available on the website of theFor the purposes of the first subparagraph of Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, the Member State in which the person concerned is established shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 574/72, provide the following information:A few examples of certification bodies are: Child and Family / Growing up direction, l'Office de la Naissance et de l'Enfance (l'ONE), the Government of the German-speaking community, Sport Vlaanderen, l'ADEPS, the Municipality, the Province, the School,... Where the authority or person responsible for the reception is only approved for a part of the year for which the attestation is drawn up, a subsidy shall be granted... the part of the year concerned shall be specified. For example, for a new crèche which begins its activities during the year. In the last part of Box I, the information of the certification body concerned shall be provided.The debtor is the person normally held to pay the expenses for children's allowance and who pays or bears the expenses. In practice, this will usually be the person who enrolls the child for the allowance. However, the expenditure may sometimes be paid by a third party acting in the name and discharge of the debtor (in accordance with Article 1236 of the Civil Code) (8). In this case, even if the payment was made by that third party, it is the debtor who must be mentioned on the certificate. (8) Circular AAFisc No 4/2016 (in which case Ci.RH.331/635.466) of 29.01.2016. The debtor mentioned on the certificate will be entitled to the tax relief but only if he is entitled to the tax benefit of the child's pension or if he receives half of the tax benefit for children's benefit (fis insurance) and if of course all the other legal conditions are fulfilled (age of the child, nature of the expenses,.....) The debtor is therefore entitled to the certificate not automatically to the tax benefit of the parent.In cases where the child has not paid or borne the expenses (the father has not paid in the name and discharge of her). 3. Information of the child (name, first name, identification number of the national register or, where appropriate, the identification number of the KSZ, date and address) This heading must be completed as precisely as possible. 4. Period of reception The periods of reception - for which the expenditure has actually been paid during the year - may be defined by the institution concerned itself. For example, schools may indicate periods from 01.01.2021 to 30.06.2021 and from 01.09.2021 to 31.12.2021 (9). (9) Since the organisation of schools and internals is based on school years and not on calendar years, it may be permitted to draw up two certificates for each calendar year: one for the period from 1 January to 31 August and another for the period from 1 September to 31 December. In the case of reception periods of holidays, an effective reception period should be indicated, for example, from 4 July to 8 July, etc. (10) In the case of holiday camps for a specified period, which may not be organized for a period, in respect of the period during which the period during which the period the period of reception of reception of one or more than one or more than one or more than one of the period of the period of the period of reception, the period of the period of the period of reception, where the child may be indicated on the period of the period of reception, where the period of reception, the period of the period of the period of reception of the period of the period of reception, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of one or more than one or more than that the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the period of the child on which the period of the month on which the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the week of the month of the month of the week of the monthIt is not possible, therefore, to issue a certificate if the child does not participate in the reception activity, whereas the parents have already paid the participation fee but the institution does not want to repay it. The same applies also to fees which may be charged to the taxpayer, for example in the event of absence without notification or late notification. Daily rate The daily rate must be indicated for reasons of simplification only if it exceeds the maximum amount per day and per child. From tax year 2021 (expenditure of the year 2020), the maximum rate is indexed. For tax year 2022 (expenditure made in 2021), it is 14 euros per day per child. The maximum amount of the expenditure is no longer indicated on the model certificate as it is possible to change each year, and therefore the amount of the allowance must be notified to the maximum amount applicable for the year in question.On the other hand, the authority must not take into account any concession granted by a third party (e.g. mutuality) to the parents. Person authorised to connect the receiving authority or person responsible for receiving the reception (name, quality, signature) The signature is not required for the electronic transmission of a copy to the administration via the application Belcotax-on-web, since the user must register to use the application. The transmission of the data mentioned on the attestations to the administration does not mean that the reception authorities will no longer have to provide a certificate to the debtor of the childcare expenses. They will always have to provide a certificate to that person. IV. FAQ AND CONTACT POINTS The administration will soon publish FAQ to provide additional assistance to the authorities and persons providing childcare services in the completion of the certificates.