The decision of the Flemish Government to grant aid to the socio-tourist sector and the Everyone deserves holiday fund to limit the negative economic impact resulting from the urgent measures taken by the National Security Council to reduce the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus Legal grounds This decision is based on: - The law laying down the general provisions applicable to budgets, the control of subsidies and the accounting of the communities and the regions, as well as on the organisation of the audit by the Court of Auditors of 16 May 2003, last amended by the law of 10 April 2014, Article 11 to 14; - The decree concerning the Flemish Codex Public Finances of 29 March 2019, Article 72 to 76; and - The decree establishing the internal self-employed agency with legal personality "Tourism Flanders" of 19 March 2004, Article 5, § 2.This emergency fund is intended to be granted to the socio-tourist sector and the Everyone deserves holiday fund. Legal framework This decision is consistent with the following rules: - To the extent that within the framework of this Decision aid is granted to be qualified as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 of the Treaty relating to the functioning of the European Union, or to Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 concerning the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid, or to the Communication from the Commission C(2020) 1863 final on the temporary framework relationship for State aid in support of the economy due to the current COVID-19 outbreak of 19 March 2020, as amended by amendments of 3 April 2020 and 8 May 2020; and - The decision of the Flemish Government to implement the Flemish Codex Public Finance of 17 May 2019, Article 71 to 77.A long-term physical, mental, or sensory limitation that can prevent this person from participating fully, effectively and on the basis of equality with others in society; 8° Network Everyone deserves holiday: the partner network of Tourism Flanders that brings together expertise, goodwill and social responsibility to realize the right to vacation for all Flemish people, especially for those who cannot go on holiday or day trip because of financial, mental or physical constraints; 9° Network partners: tourist partners and social partner organisations that as network partner organisation Everyone deserves holiday in the online offer for day trips, holiday accommodations, group stays or organized holidays are included; 10° Rap on step offices: low threshold leisure and travel facilities) agencies for people with a limited budget of the network Everyone deserves vacation and the Rap on step cooperation charter of Tourism Flanders; 11° Everyone deserves holiday fund: the network's holiday fund to make it possible to holiday for the most vulnerable holiday users who can experience a holiday threshold, in collaboration with the Athletic Museum and its subsidiary in France.With effect from 14 March to 7 June 2020, where the subsidy per holiday organisation is determined on the basis of the following criteria which allow any holiday organisation eligible for it to receive at least pro rata financial support: 1° the average number of overnight stays by persons belonging to the target group and their group per holiday organisation in the period from 14 March to 7 June of the years 2017 to 2019; 2° the ratio of the average number of overnight stays per holiday organisation according to point 1° above as regards the total number of overnight stays by persons belonging to the target group and their association of all holiday organisations eligible for financial support in accordance with this Decision; 3° the holiday organisations are granted or received, to the extent applicable, in particular the amount of any other premium that holiday organisations will receive in respect of the financial support to compensate for the effects of the corona measures in the budget of Flanders, without the total support per holiday organisation being granted by more than 800.000 euro.In addition to the provisions of Article 3, first paragraph, 1° to 4° of this Decision, the number of overnight stays during the period from 8 June 2020 to 31 August 2020 shall be changed in the period from 8 June 2020 to 31 August 2020.For the purposes of the application, where the period of notice is not less than 15 days and not more than 30 days. In the event of prior notification of the call, Tourism Flanders may derogate from this minimum period of notice, provided that the period of notice is not less than 15 days. Tourism Flanders shall examine any grant application for compliance with the conditions imposed by this decision on the granting and the amount of financial support. This decision shall be made by decision of the administrator-general of Tourism Flanders, which has a delegation for this purpose. Tourism Flanders shall provide a notification of the decision provided for in paragraph 4 above to the holiday organisations and health care establishments, either in writing or in combination of the two. If Tourism Flanders decides to grant financial support, Tourism Flanders shall pay the subsidy on the account of the holiday organisations and holiday homes as known. Tourism Flanders shall grant financial support to the holiday organisations and care centres by 31 December 2020 at the latest.Article 10. Tourism Flanders decides, on the basis of the information available to it, the amount of the quota to be purchased per network partner in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 7 and 8 of this Decision. This decision takes place by decision of the Administrator-General of Tourism Flanders, which has a delegation for this purpose and this regardless of the amount of the purchase amount per network partner. Tourism Flanders purchases the quotas in two purchase rounds, with a first purchase round in July 2020 and a second purchase round in September 2020. Tourism Flanders provides a notification of the decision provided for in paragraph 4 above to the network partners, either in writing, or in combination of both. Section 2. - Support holiday offer vulnerable holidaymaker Art. 11. The network partners receive financial support for the development and organisation of activities tailored to vulnerable holidaymakers during the period from 1 July to 31 December 2020. For an activity without accommodation the network partner as a financial support per participating vulnerable holiday companion per day.or travel report or completed #discovery truffle book; and 5° per day or overnight that the activity has not continued, the network partner will pay the amount of funding received per participating vulnerable holidaymaker and per person of the accompaniment company for this day or overnight stay in the Everyone deserves holiday fund by 31 January 2021. Art. 13. The network partners submit an application for financial support to Tourism Flanders. Tourism Flanders announces the call for application option on its website. Tourism Flanders determines per period the final submission date for the application, with a minimum of 15 days and a maximum of 30 days. In the event of a preliminary notice of the call, Tourism Flanders may derogate from this minimum rate. Tourism Flanders provides a notification of the decision, provided for in the fourth paragraph above, to the network partners, either in writing, or in accordance with the conditions imposed by this decision on the grant and the amount of financial support to be granted by the airline to the airline in accordance with the financial support of the charter.Granted from the account number of the Rap on Step offices as known. Tourism Flanders grants the financial support according to this chapter no later than 31 December 2020 to the Rap on Step offices. Art. 16. The Rap on Step offices provide by 30 June 2021 either orally or in writing a functional and financial responsibility for the use of financial support. CHAPTER 5. - Everyone deserves holiday fund Art. 17. The Everyone deserves holiday fund receives a one-off deposit worth 500,000 euros. Art. 18. The Vzw Koepel of Attractions and Museums receives a one-off financial support of up to 60,000 euros to cover administration, staff and other start-up costs for the Everyone earns holiday fund. Art. 19. Tourism Flanders concludes a cooperation agreement with the Vzw Koepel of Attractions and Museums which regulates at least the payment of Article 17 of this Decision; 2° the start-up fee provided for Article 18 of this Decision; and 3° the terms and conditions on the management of the Everyone earns holiday fund, including but not limited to the use of the Everyone earns holiday fund of Attractions and Museurs to be granted to the airport at least:For the purposes of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Art. 27. The Flemish Minister, responsible for tourism, is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 10 July 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister of Justice and Enforcement, Environment, Energy and Tourism, Z. DEMIR