The Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to restrict the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 is hereby added to the Official Opinion of the Council of State. COUNCIL OF STATE, Legislative Section, Opinion 69.305/AV, of 6 May 2021, on a draft Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to restrict the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19. On 29 April 2021, the Council of State, Department of Legislation, by the Minister of Home Affairs, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal requested an opinion on a draft Ministerial Decision amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 laying down urgent measures to restrict the dissemination of the coronavirus COVID-19, the draft was examined by the General Assembly on 5 May 2021. The General Assembly was composed of Jacques JAUMOTTE, the Chairman of the Council of State, on 8 working days* to provide an opinion on a draft Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 amending the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 on urgent measures to restrict the dissemination of the coronavirus COVID-19.The draft ministerial decision submitted for its opinion seeks to amend the ministerial decision of 28 October 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19'. The amendments concern mainly relaxation of the so-called corona measures. For example, "open terraces' may be used, the curfew shall be replaced by a cooperation ban between 0.0000 and 5.00 p.m. and certain activities, such as events, cultural performances and professional sporting competitions, under conditions, shall be admitted. The draft also includes a regulation relating to the safety of service cheque workers. In addition, the temporal scope of the thus amended decision shall be extended until 30 June 2021. The decision to take effect on 8 May 2021.in the very short period in which it was required to deliver an opinion, decides to limit its examination to its amending provisions and its scope, and this for the following reasons: "This opinion has been given by the General Assembly of the Legislation Section of the Council of State within a period of five working days, extended to eight working days with the application of Article 84 (1), first paragraph, 3°, of the Coordinated Laws to the Council of State. Thus, the deadline for application of the Ministerial Decision of 28 April 2021, as amended by the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020, as amended by urgent measures to restrict the dissemination of the coronavirus COVID-19, applies until 25 April 2021 (Article 28 of the Decision) and this draft amending act is to enter into force on Monday, 26 April 2021, the General Assembly has considered it appropriate to give this opinion without waiting until the last day of its term, and to give its opinion within the initial period of five working days.It is the same legal basis as that referred to in the preamble to the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 itself, as well as in the various ministerial decisions amending that decision, including the Ministerial Decision of 24 April 2021 on which the Legislative Department issued its opinion 69.253/AV. As pointed out in Opinion 69.253/AV, the question arises as to the extent to which delegations may be made available to the Minister for Home Affairs in principle outside the examination of the present request for an opinion. As regards this question, although preliminary questions have been referred to the Constitutional Court. (ii) As long as the Court has not ruled on this matter and, where appropriate, has established an unconstitutional civil protection, the relevant provisions of law remain in force.Article 3, 1°, of the law on police officers, expressly referred to in Article 11 of the same law, defines the "police measures" as any legal or substantive act of administrative or judicial police involving a designation, obligation or prohibition on the part of the public; the reference in Article 11 of the law of 5 August 1992 to the powers exercised by the mayor or the municipal institutions must also be understood as a reference to the relevant provisions relating to the New Community Law, in particular Articles 119, 134 and 135 thereof. Article 42 of the same law shall be worded as follows: "Where he is endangered in the performance of his or her duties or where persons are at risk, any member of the operational framework may request the assistance or assistance of the persons present on the spot and in the event of an absolute necessity may also request the assistance or assistance of any other useful person.Article 182. The Minister or his agent may, in the event of imminent circumstances, require the population, in order to ensure its protection, to remove from places or regions which are particularly exposed, threatened or affected, and to designate a provisional place of residence; for the same reason, he may prohibit any movement or movement of the population. The same power shall be granted to the mayor. (...) Article 187. Rejection or failure to behave in accordance with the measures provided for in Articles 181 (1) and 182 shall, in peace time, be punished with imprisonment of eight days to three months, and with a fine of twenty-six euros to five hundred euros, or with one of those penalties alone. In war time or in equivalent periods, the refusal or failure to comply with the measures imposed by Article 185 shall be punishable by imprisonment of three months and with a fine of five hundred euros to one thousand euros, or with one of those penalties only.(iii) The question of existence, in particular in those various texts, of an adequate legal basis for determining, by means of ministerial decisions taken in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic law, in the context of the case-law of the ordinary courts.In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Act of 31 December 1963, which applies both in time of war and in peace time, the Minister of the Interior organizes the resources and draws upon the measures necessary for civil protection for the whole territory of the country. It coordinates the preparation and application of those measures in the various ministerial departments as well as in the public bodies. The civil protection does not only aim to protect and preserve the population, as well as to ensure the protection of Lands patrimonium in time of war, but also to provide assistance and assistance in times of peace in the event of catastrophic events, disasters such as fires, floods and other such disasters (Parl. St. St., S., 1961-62, as well as to ensure the survival of the population, but also to assist in times of war.In addition, the Minister or, where appropriate, the Mayor or the Governor may, on the basis of the law of 5 August 1992, also exercise administrative police powers under Article 11 of that law, and without prejudice to the powers conferred upon them by or under the law (such as those governing civil security), the powers of the mayor in subsidiary order (among other things) where the disturbance of the public order extends to the territory of several municipalities or, where the event or situation requires them only in a single locality, the general interest shall be subject to the powers conferred on them by or under the law (such as those conferred on them, by the law of civil security), to the powers of the mayor in subsidiary order (such as those conferred by Article 11 of that law).In the same judgment of 30 October 2020, it was then stated that the contested measure, namely the compulsory closure of the catering industry, with the exception of peripheral activities, for one month, "appears to be able to be incorporated into the power conferred on the Minister by Article 11 of the Law of 5 August 1992, so that the general principle of law contained in Article 105 of the Constitution in itself may be observed within the meaning of Article 182 of the Law of 15 May 2007 under which the Minister, in the event of threatening circumstances, may oblige the public, in order to ensure its protection, to remove from places which are particularly exposed, threatened or even affected, and what is the case in the case of a (general) lockdown, for the same reason any movement of the population'.9.5. Article 26 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 is to be interpreted as meaning, inter alia, that any measure adopted by the Minister for Internal Affairs may be regarded as a place or movement ban within the meaning of Article 15 of the Act, subject to the provisions of Article 15 of the Act, to the principle that compliance with one or more of the conditions or modalities may be accepted in principle on the basis of either one or the other of the legal bases mentioned, or that Article 26 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 is to be determined as follows:Article 11 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Police. Moreover, these provisions are often linked to other legislation whose compliance is controlled by other bodies (such as legislation relating to well-being at work) or which refer to other bodies of the Federal, Regional or Local Government. Furthermore, compliance with certain provisions which have not been re-established in Article 26 is very difficult to control and therefore not sufficiently sanctionable in the field. An explanation: Article 5 to 11 concerns the conditions under which certain commercial activities may be opened, goods and services can be supplied and such more. In the event of failure to comply with these rules will follow a penalty in accordance with Article 26; Article 12 concerns a provision in respect of local authorities, which cannot be sanctioned in accordance with Article 26; Article 13, with the exception of the provisions relating to the relationship between the employer and the employee, and to the obligations of the competent municipal authorities; Article 14, 15a concern obligations in respect of citizens, which are governed by Article 26;Article 15 of the Special Power Decision No 37 (xviii) states in turn that "the obligations provided for in the framework of the urgent measures taken by the Minister of Home Affairs to limit the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 must be respected in undertakings as preventive measures to ensure the safety and health of workers." The fact that the failure to comply with certain measures to restrict the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19, namely those which apply to undertakings and which may be considered as preventive measures to ensure the safety and health of workers, may be sanctioned under these provisions, does not mean, of course, that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs must first have an appropriate legal basis for adopting those measures. 10.In addition, Article 4 of the Law of 31 December 1963 on Civil Protection and Article 11 of the Law of 15 August 1992 on the Law of 15 August 1992 on the Law of 15 August 1992 on the Law of the Police Office (hereinafter referred to as Article 4 of the Draft Law of 31 December 1963), the Minister may, on the one hand, organize the means and encourage the measures necessary for civil protection for the whole territory of the country (Article 4 of the Law of 31 December 1963) and, on the other hand, replace under certain conditions the mayor and the municipal institutions, which implies, inter alia, that the Minister may issue "police regulations" within the meaning of Article 119 of the New Law of 15 August 1992 (Article 11 of the Law of 15 August 1992).However, the Council of State finds that none of these provisions empowers the Minister for Internal Affairs to take the proposed measures.As the Council of State, Department of Legislation earlier (xxiii) and also during the current COOVID-19 pandemic (xxiv), the federal government is responsible for combating a public health crisis within the limits of its own physical powers.' (xxv) (...) In the fight against an epidemic emergency, the federal government may take measures within the framework of its powers regarding: - the health policy; - the maintenance of public order, more specifically the maintenance of public health (sanitary police) - the civil protection and civil security; - the control of external borders; - the sanitary measures within the framework of other federal powers.' In this case, the most relaxing measures of the present draft under the federal government police, civil protection and/or civil security powers, have been taken into consideration by the general meeting of the department in the aforementioned opinion of 68.6.In the light of the facts on which it is based, the Council of State considers that the measure which it is considering to take is a necessary, appropriate and proportionate measure: in the light of the principle of proportionality, the principle of proportionality cannot apply here too; in the light of the nature of the facts on which it is based; in the light of the nature of the facts on which it is based; in the light of the nature of the facts on which it is based; in the light of the circumstances on which it is based, it is necessary to demonstrate that the measure which it is considering to take is a necessary, appropriate and proportionate measure: in the light of the principle of the principle of the restriction of fundamental rights, the principle of the principle of proportionality, which applies here too, must be taken into account.The Federal Government must also ensure, as a third condition, that it is strictly limited to what can be incorporated into its powers of sanitary police, civil protection or civil security and that it does not merely exercise the substantive powers of another government. In the context of combating an epidemic emergency on the basis of the powers of administrative police, civil protection and/or civil security, the Federal Government cannot, for example, impose an obligation of mouth-masking and a social distance requirement in schools and museums, in so far as it is a proportionate and necessary measure (rand number 33), and - in extreme circumstances - decide to close it (xxxi).It is clear from that interpretation of the provisions of the Law of 8 August 1980 that the limitation of noise levels can be regarded as a health measure in the fight against the coronavirus, which may be taken by the Federal Government, despite the fact that that measure affects regional competence in the fight against noise as referred to in Article 6, Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, paragraph 5, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of the Law on the reform of the institutions of 8 August 1980).Ainsi que le relève le préambule de l'arrêté attaqué, la pressure sur les hôpitaux et sur la continuité des soins non COVID-19 demeure élevée, le risque pour la santé publique persiste et des compromise doivent êtrefaits. La prolongation de la mesure de fermeture des bureaux de paris s'inscrit donc dans un ensemble de mesures qui emportent des restrictions à la liberté de mouvement du public et aux entreprises. Ces mesures sont prices afin de protéger la santé de la population dans des circumctances dandereuuses. Elles ont toutes pour objectif de ralentir et de redre gérence et la proponation exponence du coronavirus de la rés.28 octobre 2020, tel que modifié notomment par l'arrêté ministériel attaqué, forment un tout indivisible et indissociable. L'arrêté ministériel attaqué partipe clairement à la stratégie de la partie adverse fondée sur un équilibre permanent à trouver entre, d'une part, la prévention de nouvelles contaminations, la protection du fonctionnement des hôpitaux et du secteur de la santé, et, d'autre part, la sauvegarde de l'économie belge et le bien-être général de la population. La partie adverse a opté, depuis plusieurs mois, pour une réouverture progressive de curtains secteurs au regard des exigences sanités et éconiques.'arrêté attaqué prévoit quelques sossouplissements progressifs notamment pour les professiones de contact non médicales ou les activités extérieures, il impose et maintient encore de nombreuses autres restrictions afin d'atteindre cet équilibre. Toutes les mesures prévues par l'arrêté ministériël du 28 octobre 2020, tel que modifié notomment par l'arrêté ministériël attaqué, forment donc un tout indivisible et indivisible et c'est au regard de cet ensemble qu'il convient d'apprécier la proportionité des mesures.In the present draft, a number of measures imposed by the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 are relaxed, but also several restrictions are maintained on the basis of which the present draft seeks to strike a new balance between, on the one hand, the prevention of new infections and the protection of the functioning of hospitals and the health sector and, on the other hand, the safeguarding of the Belgian economy and the general well-being of the population. In the light of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of equality, the applicant must be able to demonstrate that the various categories of persons treated, in particular in Article 2 of the draft, are reasonably linked to the objectives pursued by objective and pertinent means.Since the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as enshrined in Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, implies that persons in the same situation should be treated in the same way, the author of the draft should be able to justify the reasons why the planned measures are limited to that one category of workers, and this in respect of other categories of homeworkers who could be considered to be at least in a comparable situation. For example, consideration should be given to the household aid, to the home carers, etc. 18.20. The proposed Article 2, § 2a, second paragraph, of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 refers to "the preventive measures referred to in paragraph 2'. Luises who refer to "the appropriate preventive measures (...) safety and health rules of a material, technical and/or organisational nature as laid down in the "Generical Guide' to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at work', which is made available on the website of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, supplemented by directives at sectoral and/or enterprise level, and/or other appropriate measures providing at least an equivalent level of protection'.If the employer takes these other measures, he must be able, on request, to demonstrate that the level of protection is equivalent to that laid down in Article 6 (3) (Article 3 of the draft), to determine the modalities applicable to open terraces 'without prejudice to the applicable protocols'. In a question relating to the legal scope of those protocols, the representatives of the Minister have given the following ambivalent reply: "The protocols and guides constitute an indicative assessment framework. The protocols and guides can only serve as regulatory measures, as provided for in the MB, but are not regulating themselves." 22. In Opinion 69.253/AV of 23 April 2021, the general meeting of the Legislative Section has already noted the following provisions of protocols: "20.2. [...] Although the authorised authority does not recognize the regulatory force of the protocols, it is not possible to define the rules of the protocols.' Moreover, it cannot be seen why the draft Article 29 (1) of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 does not apply to the following provisions of the Protocols: "20.2....The term "family" is defined in Article 1, 6°, of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 as "persons living under the same roof." In the sense of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020, the term "family" does not necessarily correspond to the concept of family, but can therefore also be used to refer to the term "family" in Article 1, 6°, of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020 as "persons living under the same roof."The second paragraph of the same paragraph does not provide for a derogation in favour of households. However, because of the interference in the right to respect for private life which might entail such an interpretation, the derogation provided for in the said second paragraph cannot be regarded as a priori an obligation for the persons responsible for the establishments concerned or for their staff to verify whether the members of the same "housekeeping" are indeed entitled to benefit from the criminal penalties laid down in Article 26 of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 2020, unless it is clear that the persons responsible for the establishments concerned or their staff should be aware of the fact that the persons gathered around the same table were obviously not members of the same "housekeeping" in the sense as stated in the previous remark. Article 4 (25.Article 5 (3) of the Decision does not apply to open terraces other than the other establishments on which they may sell those drinks, since the open terraces are allowed to sell them only to 20 hours.For reasons of legal certainty, therefore, the operative part should be clarified on this point. Article 8 29. Following a question concerning the definition of professional sporting competitions, the Minister's agents have provided the following clarification: "Professional sporting competitions involving participants in the sport as an occupation." It would be appropriate to include that clarification in the operative part. 30. In the French text of the provision under 2°, the word "accomplis" should immediately follow the words "l'âge de 12 ans". 31. The representatives of the Minister agree that, in the provision under 3°, the reference to Article 18, 6° should be omitted, since the latter provision relates only to the non-professional sports training courses. 32. In connection with the provision under 4° rice, as regards the French text of the proposed Article 15 (10), the question whether the conditions which are imposed therein - namely, under other "by professional" should be excluded from the terms of Article 18, 6°, the term "outside" should be applied to the term "out of professional competitions" and to all other professional sports courses.On the basis of the reply of the Minister's agents, it can be stated that it is apparent that it refers to the rules contained in Articles 23 to 25 of the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020. If that is indeed the intention of the author of the draft, the operative part must be clarified to that effect for the sake of legal certainty. 34. As regards the provision in point 6°, the agents of the Minister, in the light of the question whether children up to the age of 12 years are included in the maximum number of 10 persons, the following stated: "Children are included." However, for reasons of legal certainty, the operative part of this draft must not be amended. Article 9 35.It is also necessary to ensure that in the proposed provision a correct and as immediate URL as possible is displayed on the board of directors. 36.2. The Minister's agent was asked to explain the scope and legal status of the CERM and CIRM, taking into account that the proposed provision, although formally addressed to the competent local authorities, may also affect the rights of citizens, the possibility of refusing to grant admission to an activity. These agents replied to the following: "The CIRM and the CERM are evaluation tools to be used by local authorities when taking their decision whether or not to allow an event on their territory. For example, the CIRM indicates that the event can be organized in accordance with the rules of the MB (for example, the rules laid down in Article 18, 23 and 25) the local authorities will in this way continue to receive a clear overview of the measures taken by the organisers to comply with the rules of the MB; for example, the CIRM gives a clear picture of how many persons may be present at a certain location, taking into account of 1.5m in accordance with Article 23 of the MB and 25).The General Assembly has already made the following observation in its Opinion 69.253/AV of 23 April 2021: "However, to the extent that the public authorities are committed to ensuring that the measures adopted comply with the requirements of proportionality in the light of the current situation, this procedure may be accepted'. However, as the General Assembly of the Legislative Section has noted in its Opinion 68.936/AV of 7 April 2021, as soon as that legal framework has entered into force, it will no longer be possible to rely on the legal bases referred to in the preamble to this draft.Il convier également de reliver que la délégation à un Ministre seul peut sejustifier eu égard à l'urgence de la situation. [...] Il résulte des développements qui précèdent qu'il n'y a pas lieu d'écarter l'application de l'arrêté ministériël du 23 march 2020 portant des mesures d'urgence pour limiter la propagation du coronavirus COVID-19. Les poursuites exercées par le Ministère public sur la base de cet arrêté doivent, partant, être déclarées recevables  currently. v Bergen, 8 February 2021, 2020/H/361, p. 8: "Il résulte de la le lecture conjointes dispositions précitées que l'imposition de référation à référation à l'opération de référation de référation de référation de référation de l'arté., Chronique judiciaire, 2020, p. 298) et sont en lien avec les risques allors encourus, notamment de propagation du virus et de saturation des hôpitaux, que l'arrêté ministériel entendait contrerer. [...] En conséqué, il lorret de ce qui précède que les arrêtés ministériels dont le ministère public application l'application ont bien été pris en exécution de la loi d'habilitation du 15 mai 2007, adoptée pour fournir une réponse urgente et temporaraire à des situations de catatrophes soudaines ou imminentes." vi Rb. Brussels (Fr.), decision, 31 March 2021, no.temps de l'épidémie aurait pu expliquer qu'il faille s'appuyer sur la loi du 15 mai 2007, il ne paraît plus justifier de s'en prévaloir plusieurs mois après l'émergence de la crise sanitaire [...]' (n° 67 - p. 24); "Paridentité de motifs et pour autant que de besoin, les mêmes constats d'illégalité apparente peuvent être posés pour les autres dispositions à l'appui desquelles l'arrêté ministériel du 28 octobre 2020 et ses arrêtés subséquents ont été édictés' (n° 73 - p. 25).Nous ne voyons pas non plus de similarité entre cette mesure de fermeture et une mesure d'assignation d'un lieu de séjour provisoire aux populations éloignées des lieux dangereux, relevant du pouvoir du ministre de l'Intérieur. De même, cette mesure de fermeture des établissements hospitalatie n'a rien de commun, de près ou de loin et selon le sens commun, avec une mesure d'interdiction de tout déplacement ou mouvement de la population, visée à l'article 182 de la loi du 15 mai 2007. Or, dans la mesure où toute infraction aux articles 181 et 182 est sanctionnée parlement l'article 187 de la loi du 15 mai 2007Comme le soutient l'Etat belge, revient à donner à ce concept un sens que le législateur n'a pas voulu lui donner. Il en va a fortiori ainsi des autres mesures (horaire) encadrant la vente des repas à emporter, avec ou sans boissons alcoolisées (cfr. supra). En outre, même s'il fallait considérer qu'une mesure de fermeture des établissements huerstelling pouvait, en principle, être décidée par le ministre de l'Intérieur au titre de son rehabilitation à interdire tout déplacement - ce nous ne pensons pas à première vue -, encore faudrait-il que: - ce soit aux fins de pertre l'éloignes de pémentes péprés péprétérés, estération à l'couvre-feu et, le cas échéant, du port du masque. Troisièmement, la mesure ne semble pas non plus pouvoir se revendiquer d'une interdiction partielle - selon la règle 