The Flemish Government's decision on the financial consequences of the measures to combat COVID-19 for facilities for disabled persons and persons with disabilities which support the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities Legal basis This decision is based on: - the Decree of 7 May 2004 establishing the internal self-employed agency with legal personality Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities Article 8 2° and 3°, 7°, 11° and 12° inserted by Decree of 25 April 2014 and Article 19 inserted by Decree of 25 April 2014; - the Decree of 25 April 2014 concerning the subsequent financing of persons with disabilities and for the reform of the method of financing of care and support for persons with disabilities, Article 10 first paragraph. Formal requirements The following formal requirements are met: - The Flemish Minister, responsible for the budget, has given his agreement on 29 April 2020. - No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, applying Article 3, § 1 of the Laws to the State, coordinated on 12 January 1973.For the purposes of this Decision: 1° agency for Persons with a Handicap, established by the Decree of 7 May 2004 establishing an internal self-employed agency for Persons with a Handicap; 2° decision of 15 December 2000:3°, of the decision of the Flemish Government of 15 December 2000; 10° period COVID-19: the period during which the measures adopted to combat COVID-19 are in force and which entered into force on 14 March 2020; 11° personal budget: a budget for non-directly accessible care and support as set out in Chapter 5 of the Decree of 25 April 2014 on the subsequent financing of persons with disabilities and on the reform of the method of financing of care and support for persons with disabilities or the number of health-related resources, as set out in Article 8 and 12 of the decision of the Flemish Government of 24 June 2016 on the transition of persons with disabilities using a personal assistance budget or a personal budget or supported by a flexible supply centre for adults or a home guidance service, to the person following financing and to the transition of the flexible supply centres for adult and home guidance services, or to a number of care-related items referred to in Article 11 (1) of the Flemish Government of 20 April 2018;from the decision of the Flemish Regiering of 4 February 2011 concerning the general conditions of recognition and quality of facilities for reception, treatment and supervision of persons with disabilities; 15° Health inspection: Health inspection of the Department of Welfare, Public Health and Family, mentioned in Article 3 (2), third paragraph, of the decision of the Flemish Government of 31 March 2006 concerning the Department of Welfare, Public Health and Family, concerning the entry into force of regulations establishing agencies in the policy domain of Wellness, Health and Family and concerning the amendment of regulations relating to that policy domain. CHAPTER 2. - Budget guarantee for facilities, organisations providing free time care and assistance organizations Art. 2. The agreements on providing support in the individual service agreements with facilities applicable on the day of the basic period of COVID-19 shall not be adjusted if the facilities during the period COVID-19 do not provide support or provide other support as agreed by any other frequency than is agreed, except as the consequence of the use of a temporary person's emergency.the use of a temporary person following the budget emergency shall be made by the licensed healthcare provider on the basis of the support which should be provided in accordance with the individual service agreement applicable on the day before the start date of the period COVID-19, during the period COVID-19. The budget holder of a PAB has not provided support during the period COVID-19 or has provided more support than has been agreed upon. Art. 4. The facilities may claim a financial compensation for the loss of allowances for accommodation expenses as a result of the fact that in accordance with Article 14, second paragraph, in the period COVID-19, in the period COVID-19, the person with a disability does not reside in the facility.For the purposes of Article 10, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, of the Flemish Government's decision of 19 July 2007 laying down the terms and conditions of recognition and subsidisation of organisations providing leisure services for persons with disabilities for the year 2020, the number of services proven shall be proportionately reduced taking into account the duration of the period of the period of COVID-19. Art. 9. For the purposes of Article 19 of the Flemish Government's decision of 24 November 2017 on the recognition and subsidy of facilities providing support to persons with disabilities in prison, and units for interns shall be considered to have an internalised during the period of COVID-19, Art. 10.The Agency may not, on the basis of the provisions applicable to them or on the basis of the use of personal budgets, pay for the period COVID-19. The Flemish Minister responsible for assistance to persons with a restriction lays down the modalities for the retention of the grants. He shall take into account the period during which the obligation, indicated in the first paragraph and the size of the group of staff for whom the obligation in the first paragraph is not met. CHAPTER 3. - Financial guarantees for persons with a disability. Art. 12. If at the date of the start of the period COVID-19 was used, the possibility provided for in Article 12 of the Flemish Government's decision of 22 February 2013 concerning directly accessible assistance to persons with a disability to combine the person's budget with residence, whether in combination with a disability, the person in question can not be used in the condition of the second period COVID-19 shall not be allowed to continue to use the period of the period COVID-19.Article 14. During the period of COVID-19, Article 25 to Article 31 of the Flemish Government's decision of 26 February 2016 recognising and subsidising multifunctional centres for minor persons with disabilities in support of a multifunctional centre for minor persons with disabilities and Article 9, § 2/1 and § 2/2 of the Flemish Government's decision of 4 February 2011 concerning the general conditions of recognition and quality care of facilities for reception, treatment and supervision of persons with disabilities for persons with disabilities with a disability, during the period of COVID-19, shall be applied only on the basis of the support granted in the period COVID-19. In the period COVID-19, the provision of living expenses referred to in Article 9, paragraph 3, paragraph 4 of the aforementioned decision of 4 February 2011 shall be granted in function of the support actually granted.The person following the budget or the PAB for the year 2020 is not sufficient to pay the costs arising from the agreements or the adjustments of the agreements referred to in point 2°. The Flemish Minister, responsible for assistance to persons with disabilities, may increase the percentage mentioned in the first paragraph, taking into account the duration of the period COVID-19. § 2. By way of derogation from Article 3 (2) of the Decision of 24 June 2016, the budget holder of a person following budget shall not receive any reimbursement of management costs for the amount by which the annual budget may be exceeded, in accordance with the first paragraph. If the budget holder of a person following budget is not granted the budget within the framework of the year 2020 budget, mentioned in para graph 1, the Agency may first paragraph, for the first time used as a cash budget in derogation from Article 16, third paragraph, of the aforementioned decision. § 3. If the agency or health inspection determines that the budget for the year 2020 has been exceeded but that the conditions mentioned in paragraph 1, may not be met, the costs for the purpose of Art.of the Flemish Government, J. JAMBON The Flemish Minister for Welfare, Health, Family and Poverty Control, W. BEKE