Special powers of the Brussels Capital Government n° 2020/027 concerning the operation of the municipal bodies in the context of the health crisis COVID-19 The Government of the Brussels Capital Region; having regard to Article 39 of the Constitution; having regard to the order of 19 March 2020 to grant special powers to the Brussels Capital Government in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, Article 2 (1); having regard to the decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 22 July 2019 determining the distribution of powers between the Ministers of the Brussels Capital Government; having regard to the decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 18 July 2000 to regulate its operation and to the settlement of the signature of the Government's Acts of Accession,Whereas, in order to ensure, in these exceptional circumstances, the continuity of the public service and the exercise of the necessary tasks of the municipalities, the powers of the local authorities, which must be exercised urgently, should be exercised by the College of Mayors and Ships, for a period of 60 days from 15 May 2020; whereas, if necessary and in the event of the abovementioned exceptional health conditions, the College shall justify its action on the basis of this Decision; whereas, therefore, non-urgent decisions falling within the jurisdiction of the Board itself shall be taken by the Board itself; whereas, if necessary and in the event of the abovementioned circumstances, the College shall, in accordance with the principle of urgency, justify its action on the basis of this Decision, continue to be taken by the Board itself; whereas, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; whereas, the College shall, if necessary and in the case of the abovementioned conditions, in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, decide that theHaving regard to the principle of legal certainty, the provisions of this Power Decision No 2020/003 to be incorporated into a new power decision which lays down rules derogating from the normal functioning of municipal bodies during this period of crisis; whereas, if that does not happen, there is a risk that their operation will become completely paralysed in times of this pandemic; whereas, taking into account the particular urgency to ensure continuity of public service and the beginning of equality, it is appropriate, in accordance with Article 2 of the Order of 19 March 2020, to grant special powers to the Government in the context of the Health Crisis COVID-19 to this Decision, to be confirmed by the Brussels Capital Parliament; whereas, pursuant to Article 4, first and second paragraph of the Order of 19 March 2020, given on 26 May 2020, to grant special powers to the Brussels Capital Government in accordance with Article 84, paragraph 1, paragraph 3 of the Laws of State, on 12 January 1973, pursuant to Article 1 of this Decision, it is necessary to be confirmed by the Brussels Capital Parliament;Article 3. For a period of 60 days from 15 May 2020 onwards, the meetings of the municipal council and the college of mayors and ships may be held virtually, i.e. by means of exchanges of emails or videoconferencing. When the meeting of the college takes place virtually, the invitation and all documents relating to the items on the agenda must be communicated electronically to the members concerned at least 24 hours before the date fixed for the meeting. The meetings of the municipal council shall continue to be subject to the time limits laid down in the New Municipal Act. When the meeting of the council or college is carried out on the basis of an exchange of e-mails, the municipal secretary shall be responsible for verifying by telephone the authenticity of the exchanged e-mails. The minutes of the meeting shall indicate that such verification shall not be carried out when the meeting is held by videoconference.§ 3. The above documents may be placed on any medium of information if the municipality guarantees a sustainable preservation and accessibility. The requirement of a signature is met by the use of an electronic procedure which ensures the authenticity and integrity of the data." Article 6. This decision will enter into force on 15 May 2020. Art. 7. The Minister responsible for Local Administration is responsible for implementing this decision. Brussels, 28 May 2020. For the Government: The Prime Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, responsible for Territorial Development and Urban Renewal, Tourism, the promotion of the Imago of Brussels and Bicultural matters of regional interest, R. VERVOORT The Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, responsible for Work and Vocational Training, Digitalization and Local Boards, B. CLERFAYT