Decision of the Government of the French Community of Special Forces No 40 concerning the exceptional subsidy of the decorating powers of ordinary and specialized secondary education with the aim of purchasing the computer equipment in the context of the COVID-19 crisis The Government of the French Community, having regard to Article 1 (1) (b), (f) and (h) of the Decree of 14 November 2020 granting special powers to the Government to respond to the second wave of the COVID-19 health crisis Having regard to the opinion of the Inspector of Finance, given on 12 November 2020; Having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget of 14 November 2020; Having regard to the opinion of the Council of State No 68.326/2, given on 24 November 2020, pursuant to Article 84, paragraph 1, 3°, of the Laws on State, coordinated on 12 January 1973;The purpose of the grant is to enable beneficiaries to cover the costs, as eligible expenditure, in connection with the purchase of the following training material: 1° any type of new or put into good condition portable computer; 2° any type of new or put into good condition computer tablet. § 2. The equipment purchased must comply with the minimum technical criteria laid down in the type of contract approved by the government. Art. 4. § 1. The material supplied to the pupils with the following priorities: 1° the pupils registered in a diploma shall be awarded by priority to students whose parents or the legal representative are not able to acquire the material themselves. In addition to these priority pupils shall be made available to the pupils in accordance with the following priorities: 1° the students registered in one year with a diploma which shall be issued by priority; 2° the pupils registered in the years most affected by the organisation of the profession;In the event of theft, a report of theft must be submitted to the school to confirm the actual theft of the material. § 5. The possible fees will, like the deposit, be adjusted or even cancelled depending on the financial condition of the parents or the legal officer of the pupil and in no case may constitute an obstacle to access to the equipment. In the event of disagreement between the parents or the legal officer of the student and the establishment on the application of these detailed rules, the material must be made available to the student for a solution. § 6. Any unlawful application of the deposit and/or the the theft/restor fee referred to in § 3 must be notified to the institution. Without the latter's reaction, a complaint may be lodged with the Government of the French Community within 30 days of submission, or if the latter cannot be lodged with the latter. § 6.In order to be eligible for the reimbursement of the equipment purchased from the establishments provided that each establishment has a stock equal to at least 5% of its own population. § 3. Each equipment can be reimbursed through the grants provided by this decision for a maximum amount of 500 euros per equipment. § 4. The apparatus may purchase an unlimited number of appliances, but may not apply to the government services for a higher amount than its drawing right. Article 7. The subsidy will be paid after presentation to the government departments of invoices showing the purchase of equipment and documents showing compliance with the public procurement legislation. The supporting documents must allow for the determination of the minimum number of equipment purchased, the cost of these purchases and the date on which the equipment is ordered. The detailed rules for the submission of the supporting documents and the accompanying form will be specified in the letter published by the government.