Decision of the Flemish Government granting a grant to local authorities to strengthen the contact and source search to combat the COVID-19 pandemic Legal grounds This decision is based on: - the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, Article 20, as amended by the special law of 16 July 1993 and Article 87 (1); - the law of 16 May 2003 laying down the general provisions applicable to budgets, the control of subsidies and the accounting of the communities and regions, as well as the organisation of the audit by the Court of Auditors, Article 3, third paragraph; - the Flemish Codex Public Finances of 29 March 2019, Article 71 to 77; - the decree of 20 December 2019 on the general budget of the Flemish Community for the financial year 2020, Article 11; - the decision of Flemish Codex Public Finance of 17 May 2019, Article 29 to 31 and Article 43. Shape requirements are fulfilled: - The Finance Inspectorate has given its opinion on 9 November 2020.In addition, in order to ensure a permanent, correct and smooth exchange of information between the Flemish and the local contact centre as well as the other stakeholders involved, including the COVID-19 teams within the care councils, it is possible to find two specific legal bases for local authorities in the field of public health which allow them to take up the above-mentioned tasks themselves and to have the necessary dates: - First, Article 135, § 2 of the New Municipal Law (NGW) provides that municipalities also have the task of providing it for the benefit of the residents, in a good police, in particular about the sensuality, health, safety and rest on public roads and in public buildings. More specifically, the municipality may take appropriate measures to prevent disasters and plagues, such as epidemics and provide the necessary assistance to stop them. - In addition, the Decree on Local Government (DLB) in Article 2, § 1: the municipalities and the public welfare centres intend to sustain the welfare of the citizens at the local level, and ensure a democratic, efficient and effective treatment of their action in the management of the airport.In the context of the contact research, no case management is currently possible.The local contact research is engaged to fully handle - the agreed share of work orders/tickets of new index patients and - the work order/tickets of the high risk contacts assigned to them on the basis of the postal number.For payment of the variable subsidy, the number of handled work orders/tickets of new index patients is considered.The handled work orders/tickets of high risk contacts are not included in this number because the remuneration is already contained in the amount/index patient.The local administration also provides for its own capacity and means to include this engagement quality.For the use of staff in the function of local contact research is provided with the necessary technical training and guidance.The contact research at the level of the municipality also requires some technical adjustments of the current central system.Sourcing and quarantine coaching - Source: The source detection can detect the spots.These specific measures are: the provision of information to the person concerned, the provision of childcare services, the provision of messages, measures to prevent alienation or isolation, the provision of psychological assistance, administration arrangements, the provision of additional financial support. The provision of this further assistance can only and only after explicit permission has been requested from the persons concerned to use their data for further services. In the further measures to be taken, on the basis of the consent and under Article 2, § 1 DLB which requires local authorities to contribute sustainably to the well-being of the citizens at the local level, the local authorities act as controller. When local authorities use their own data, the preparation of a protocol (or supplement to an existing protocol) requires the provision of information from the services of the OCMW, information from the State register for the verification and complementary address of index patients and high-risk contacts.After consultation, THE VLAAMSE GOVERNMENT DECISION: Article 1. This Decision shall mean: 1° central contact centre: the contact centre listed in Article 3 (1) of Decree of 29 May 2020 on the organisation of the reporting and contact investigation within the framework of COVID-19; 2° local administration: each municipality of the Flemish Region; 3° local contact centre: contact research organised by a municipality under this Decision; 4° COVID-19 team: a team set up within a health care council providing support and advice under the COVID-19 pandemic; 5° ticket/work order: a unique digital identification means which enables the contact centre to effectively identify a work order, in this case a patient, uniquely appoint and to act on the basis of this ticket/work order; 6° processing of a ticket/work order: means contacts in all possible forms necessary or useful to hear this patient in accordance with the script, finish and registration of the patient in accordance with the standard of the patient's condition of the person in question;2° risk groups: persons medically identified as having an increased risk of infection or having an increased risk of death to a COOVID-19 infection; 13° vulnerable persons or groups: persons or groups who, for their specific context, require specific attention and tailor-made treatment for information, sensitisation, quarantine coaching and general care. People with disabilities, seniors, single persons (with children), dependents may, for example, be included in this category. 14° hotspot: a location emerging from the source detection as a risky environment. Art. 2. A total grant amount of up to EUR 11,644,000 (elf million EUR 6004,40,000) is awarded from budget article PJ0-1PMC2CGA-WT to the local authorities which include additional commitments under this Decision. This subsidy is composed of a flat-rate grant of up to EUR 4,144,000 (four million EUR Forty-four thousand) for the contracts listed in Article 5 and a variable subsidy of up to EUR 7,500,000 (seven hundred thousand thousand euro) to the local authorities in charge to the local authorities in accordance with Article 6.The local authorities do not take action to strengthen the source detection.They make connections by analysing the available data, including the data obtained from the cooperation agreement with the care board, which makes it possible to reduce seemingly random contaminations to one and the same source in order to limit further dissemination of COVID-19 by adjusting the local policy on infection control.When they detect hotspots, they also take measures to isolate them and, if possible, limit them to one. § 4.The local authorities may engage in quarantine coaching.They inform their residents when temporary isolation is applicable, what procedures are allowed and what activities are not allowed.The local authorities follow the guidelines formulated on the federal government website. § 5.The local authorities can make special use of vulnerable persons and groups.They provide information and contact with the person to whom additional assistance can be provided and to do so.The Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC in order to act as a processor of personal data for the purposes of contact investigations under the conditions of the Cooperation Agreement of 25 August 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Committee on the joint processing of data by Sciensano and the contact centres designated by the competent Federated entities or by the competent agencies, health inspections and mobile teams in the framework of a contact investigation of persons (suspectively) infected with the Coronavirus COVID-19 on the basis of a data base with Sciensano. 2° The local authorities shall sign a processor agreement with the Agency in accordance with Article 28.3. of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the basis of that data and repeal of Directive 95/46/EC in order to act as a processor of personal data on the basis of third parties.In order to support the additional commitments made by local authorities within the framework of this Decision, the local authorities themselves shall ensure the necessary capacity and resources to carry out these commitments. The persons selected for the local contact centre shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the cooperation agreement of 25 August 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Commission, be in contact with Sciensano and the relevant entities or by the competent agencies, with regard to the contact centres, health inspections and mobile teams within the framework of a contact investigation of persons (probably) infected with the coronavirus COVID-19 shall be employed on the basis of a database at Sciensano. Art. 9. The grant shall provide financial support for the additional commitments made by local authorities within the framework of this Decision. The local authorities themselves shall ensure the capacity and means to carry out these commitments.This number is equivalent to the number of new index patients. - The agreed share may change by mutual consultation in function of the total number of infections. 3° The local authorities and the COOVID-19 teams make task agreements so that they are carried out in an efficient and quality manner. 4° Depending on the nature of the tasks provided for in Articles 5 and 6, the local authorities conclude a processor agreement with the Agency for Health and Health and/or provide for the necessary protocols. 5° The local authorities that have united can conclude a joint agreement and framework of agreements. Art. 11. § 1. The grant, mentioned in Article 2, consists of two parts: 1° The local authorities that are engaged in sensitization and prevention, source detection and quarantine coaching will receive a flat subsidy of 0.125 euro per inhabitant/month and this for a period of up to 5 months. 2° The local authorities who also engage in local contact research, receive the same grant of 100 euro per processed ticket/work order of a new index patient, including the work orders/tickets of the Agency for Health and Health are awarded on the basis of January 2020.In that application, the local administration shall provide at least the following information: 1° the identification data of the local administration; 2° the date and signature. 3° the documents referred to in Article 11, § 2, 2°. The National Administration shall make available the application form. Art. 13. The Agency shall monitor compliance with the provisions of this Decision. The local administration shall provide the requested documents, information or explanations. The Agency shall evaluate the reporting referred to in Article 11, § 2, 2°, b. 14. Subject to the application of Article 13 of the Law of 16 May 2003 laying down the general provisions applicable to the budgets, the control of grants and the accounting of the communities and the regions, as well as to the organisation of control by the Court of Auditors, the Agency shall reduce the grant or refund the grant if the local administration does not comply or has not fully complied with the provisions of this Decision.