The Decree introducing an exceptional family allowance under the COVID-19 measures (1) The VLAAMS PARLIAMENT has adopted and We, GOVERNMENT, confirm the following: DECREET introducing an exceptional family allowance under the COVID-19 measures CHAPTER 1. - General provisions Article 1. This Decree regulates a Community matter. Article 2. In this Decree it is understood that: 1° beneficiary: the beneficiary, listed in book 2, Part 4, Title 1, Chapter 1, of the Decree of 27 April 2018 regulating allowances under the family policy, as well as the supplementary, mentioned in Article 225, Paragraph 1, of the same Decree; 2° actual family: the unit of income, determined in accordance with the decision of the Flemish Government of 21 September 2018 laying down the detailed rules for granting a social supplement; 3° family: living unit in which several persons live together in a permanent and ineffective manner, including an evenly distributed accommodation; 4° family allowance: all benefits paid by the Flemish Government as a subsidy in the family, consisting of the costs of the child in accordance with Article 1 of April 2018;Article 6 The application shall be submitted to the payment allowance by at least one of the beneficiaries in accordance with Article 13 of the Decree of 27 April 2018 and the basic amount referred to in Article 210 (2) of the same decree shall be increased in Article 4 for the legal child mentioned in Article 4 by a COVID-19 supplement of 120 euro. That supplement shall be definitively granted and paid in three discs for the month of the application and the two subsequent months. The COOVID-19 supplement shall be granted in accordance with the financial conditions of the family referred to in Chapter 5. CHAPTER 5. - Financial conditions Art. 8. The basic amount, mentioned in Article 13 of the Decree of 27 April 2018, and the basic amount, referred to in Article 210 (2) of the same decree, shall be indicated in Article 4, increased by the COVID-19 bonus as the income of the family for the months of March, April, May or June 2020, shall not be less than 10%.Art. 10. § 1. Cohabitation, referred to in Article 9 (2), shall not, on the basis of the information contained in the national register and may be rejected only by an official document of a government or a public institution based on the real family situation. § 2. The following supporting documents shall not be accepted as an official document as listed in paragraph 1: 1° a receipt of the declaration, mentioned in Article 7 (1) paragraph 1 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on the population registers and the foreign register; 2° a certificate from the police stating that the condition stated in the national register does not correspond to the real situation; 3° a decision, judgment or judgment of a court or court; 4° an attestation from an OCMW stating that the situation mentioned in the national register does not correspond to the real situation. § 3. If the association is not established by the information of the Rijksregister, the formation of an actual family may be proved by: 1° a control by the family inspector; 2° a statement by another official stating that the actual family composition; 3° a judgment or a statement of the court or a court or a court of a court or a court or tribunal or a court of a family;(b) benefits under sickness insurance; (c) pensions; (d) pensions; (d) pensions paid by the person in receipt of the allowance in respect of the salary of the person in receipt of the allowance in respect of the salary of the person in receipt of the allowance in respect of the salary of the person in receipt of the allowance; (d) pensions paid by the person in respect of the salary of the person in receipt of the allowance in respect of the salary of the person in receipt of the allowance in respect of the salary of the person in respect of the salary of the person in respect of the salary of the person in respect of the salary of the person in question; (d) pensions paid by the person in respect of the salary of the person in respect of the salary of the person in respect of the salary:The second paragraph of this Article to determine whether the beneficiary is eligible for the COOVID-19 supplement. If the indexed cadastral income outside use of the persons whose family income is taken as the basis for calculating the family income in accordance with Article 8 is higher than EUR 1250, the beneficiary shall not be entitled to the COOVID-19 supplement if the triple indexed cadastral income outside use of the persons whose family income is taken as the basis for calculating the family income in accordance with Article 8 is higher than 20% of the income of the family referred to in Article 11, reduced by three times the indexed cadastral income outside use, and once the indexed cadastral income is used for its own professional purposes as referred to in Article 11, paragraph 3°.(1) Plenary Session 2019-2020 Documents: - Proposal of Decree: 351 - No 1 - Amendment: 351 - No 2 - Text adopted by plenary session: 351 - No 3 Acts - Discussion and adoption: Meeting of 10 June 2020.