Decision of the Brussels Capital Government implementing Articles 433 to 435 of the Code of Income Tax 1992 concerning persons referred to in Article 439 of the same Code The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the Code of Income Tax 1992, as applicable in the Brussels Capital Region, Articles 433, § 1, 1° and 2°, § 2 second paragraph, and § 4, 434, § 1, 3rd paragraph, 1° and 2°, and Paragraph 4, as amended by the Order of 28 November 2019; Having regard to the equal opportunities test carried out on 8 January 2020 pursuant to Article 2 of the Order of 4 October 2018 introducing the Equal Opportunities Test; Having regard to the Opinion of the Data Protection Authority, given on 13 March 2020; Having regard to the Opinion of the Council of State, given on 19 February 2020, given on the application of Article 84, § 1, 2/, of the Laws to the State, coordinated on 12 January 1973;the electronic notification provided by the service of information and communication technology of the sender of the message; 9° Functional receipt notification of the information: the functional receipt notification of the electronic information provided by the JOBF. Art. 2. - Scope This decision applies only to the persons referred to in Article 439 of the WIB 92. Art. 3. - Note § 1. The service referred to in Articles 433, § 1, 1°, and § 2nd paragraph, and 435, § 1, 3rd paragraph, 1°, and paragraph 4 of the WIB 92 is the GOBF. § 2. The statutory or contractual agent referred to in Article 433, § 1, 2°, 434, § 1 and 435 of the WIB 92 is the accounting officer responsible for tax matters. The transmission of the message must be effected by one of the following means:(b) Description: size, tonnage, engine; (c) Registration number on the Belgian vessel register; 6° Nature of the instrument to be drawn up: disposal, mortgage or mortgage on acquisition. Art. 5. - Transmission of the notification § 1. The transmission of the notification shall be carried out in one of the following ways: 1° by means of a procedure using computer techniques; or 2° by means of a registered letter. If the notification is made in accordance with point 1°, the date of dispatch of the notification shall be understood to mean the date of the functional notification. A notice shall be deemed to be sent by means of a procedure using computer techniques on receipt of a technical notification.(b) if the message has not been sent by means of a procedure using computer techniques. A notice shall be deemed to have been sent by means of a procedure in which computer techniques are used for reasons of force majeure or technical fault is not communicated in accordance with 1°; or (b) if the message has not been sent in accordance with paragraph 1, 1°, the date of dispatch of the information shall be understood as the date of receipt of the information.(b) In the case of a natural person: the identification number referred to in Article 8 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and first names and the full address of the place of residence; (c) In the case of a legal person: the identification number referred to in Article 8 or, in the case of such identification number, the name, legal form and full address of the registered office; (c) In the case of a person referred to in Article 439 of the WIB 92; 9° In the case of a mortgage: (a) Amount of the mortgage, (b) Person to whom the good was taxed with a mortgage: - if it is a natural person: the identification number referred to in Article 8 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and the full address of the place of residence;(c) Date of opposition or attachment; (d) Amount in euro. Article 7. - Signature of the notification That the notifications should be valid as attachment to third parties if they are sent by means of a procedure using computer techniques, they shall bear an electronic signature, which shall be affixed with one of the following techniques: 1° creation of an electronic signature using a Belgian electronic identity card; 2° creation of a digital signature using a private key, assigned to a competent staff member, accompanied by a certificate issued to that staff member, in which both the private key and the certificate is stored in the memory of a computer in a secure manner; 3° creation of a digital signature using a private key, assigned to the regional tax administration, accompanied by a certificate issued to that entity, with both the private key and the certificate in the memory of a computer;Article 10. - Storage period of personal data The personal data exchanged in connection with the transmission of the messages, notifications and information shall be retained by the controllers during the period necessary to achieve the intended purpose of the exchange of data in the context of the transmission of the messages, notifications and information. For the GOBF, this period shall in any event not exceed twenty years from the first day of the third month following the communication. For the person referred to in Article 439 of the WIB 92 this period shall in any case not exceed thirty years from the time of the processing of the authentic instrument. Article 11. - Guarantee of the origin, integrity and identical content of the notices, notifications and information The origin and integrity of the content of the messages, notifications and information shall in any case be required, in the event of transmission by means of a procedure using computer techniques, to be ensured by means of adapted security techniques.