Decision of the Walloon Government granting crisis aid in 2021 to pig breeders affected by the fall in prices resulting from measures taken to combat COVID-19 The Walloon Government, having regard to the Walloon Agricultural Code, Articles D.11, D.12, D.13, D.17, D.241, D.242 and D.255, § 2; Having regard to the report of 17 February 2021 drawn up in accordance with Article 3 2° of the Decree of 11 April 2015 implementing the resolutions of the United Nations Women's Conference held in Beijing in September 1995 and integrating the gender dimension into the whole of regional policies; Having regard to the consultation of the Regional Government and the Federal Government on 18 March 2021; Having regard to the opinion of the Finance Inspector, given on 31 March 2021; Having regard to the assent of the Minister of Budget, given on 22 April 2021; having regard to the consultation of the sector of 31 May 2021; having regard to the opinion of the Council of State, given on 19 May 2021,Having regard to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the sale price of pigmeat per kilogram live weight, which has led to significant losses for Walloon producers since the first measures in March 2020; whereas the control measures of COVID-19 are still in force and the selling price per kilogram live weight in 2021 is still at a historical low level; whereas this fall in prices seriously endangers the survival of family pig farms in the Walloon Region; whereas the activity of these pig breeders in the Walloon Region must be supported in the context of the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the losses caused by it must be offset; whereas it is necessary to grant temporary aid to the pig sector in order to cope with this exceptional situation; whereas, in a notice of 29 March 2021, the European Commission considered that this aid did not give rise to any objections to Article 107 (3) of the Treaty concerning the operation of the European Union, to the presentation of theRights and quotas) 6° working day: working day as referred to in Article D.3, 21 of the Walloon Agricultural Code Art. 2. One-off aid to cover losses caused by the implementation of pandemic measures shall be granted on condition that the following conditions are met: 1° the aid is cumulative with other aid measures, provided that the cumulative rules laid down in the rules establishing those aid measures are compatible with each other; 2° the undertakings in difficulty on 31 December 2019 are not eligible for aid within the limits of the available budget appropriations, Article 2 of that Regulation shall not qualify for aid to farmers who, when submitting their application, meet the following cumulative conditions: 1° an active undertaking number in the cross point bank for undertakings; 2° the GBCS is identified for aid within the meaning of Article D.20 of the Walloon Agriculture; 3° the aid referred to in Article 2 of Article 4 of that Decision shall not be granted to farmers who are eligible for aid in accordance with the following cumulative conditions:The Director of the paying agency or his delegate shall take a decision on the appeal within three months of receipt of the appeal. The decision of the Director of the paying agency shall be notified simultaneously to the Director of the service and of the breeder. Article 10. In accordance with Article D.255, paragraph 2 of the Walloon Agricultural Code, the paying agency shall manage and control the aid applications and payments to breeders. Article 11. This decision shall enter into force on the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Article 12. The Minister responsible for Agriculture shall be responsible for the implementation of this decision. Names, 17 June 2021. For the Government: The Minister-President, E. DI RUPO The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade, Research, Innovation, Digital Technologies, Spatial Planning, Agriculture, the "IFAPME" and the Skills Centres, W. BORSUSUS