Covid-19 (coronavirus SARS-CoV 2). - Guidelines for persons who have been in a high-risk area and are arriving on Brussels territory Madame, Mr, In order to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV 2 coronavirus, the United College of the Joint Commission has adopted certain rules, more specifically for people arriving on Brussels territory from other countries. The risk of getting infected with SARS-CoV 2 virus occurs worldwide. Within Belgium there is a general approach to cross-border travel restrictions/recommendations and exceptions to the obligations of quarantine and steel removal upon arrival on Belgian territory. Article 13/1 of the Ordinance of 19 July 2007 on preventive health policy, in conjunction with the further mentioned decision of 1 July 2021, states that, on the one hand, persons who have been in a high-risk area and, on the other hand, persons who consider the medical health inspector to be a high-risk person, are required to consult a doctor as soon as possible to submit to a test; 2° to immediately undergo a quarantine which is determined by the doctor's obligation of 2ndFor the time of arrival on Belgian territory or on day 1 or day 2 of return, with quarantine until receipt of negative test result of the test, namely: o from 12 years onwards: PCR test o for children under 12 years old: no test required: no test required: no quarantine, but a negative PCR test carried out abroad at the earliest 72 hours prior to arrival in Belgian territory o from 12 years onwards: PCR test o for children under 12 years old: no test required: no test required: quarantine of 10 days iii. return after a stay of less than 48 hours: no obligation to test or quarantine b. return from the orange or green zones of EU countries i. no test or quarantine 2. Return and arrival from a high risk area where there are strong variants a. Belgian residents i. Can return, but: compulsory quarantine of 10 days and PCR test on day 1 and 7 days prior to the date of departurequarantine to receive negative test result, or not vaccinated: a test carried out on day 1 and day 7 of the return, with quarantine of 10 days or until receipt of negative test result of the second test ii. non-essential journeys not permitted, unless:.. more than two weeks fully vaccinated with a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency, with a test carried out on day 1 of the return with quarantine to receipt of negative test result 4. Return and arrival from a high risk area where no worrying variants are present and where no increased attention to worrying variants is a. Return and arrival from the red zones of EU countries i. Belgians and Belgian residents:... if fully vaccinated/certificate of recovery: exemption from testing and quarantine if tested: no quarantine, but a PCR test carried out at the earliest 72 hours prior to arrival in Belgian territory or on day 1 or 2 of the return, with a test carried out on day 1 of the return with quarantine to receive negative test result, i. o.