This Decision of the Walloon Government concerning the various provisions relating to the organisation of continuous evaluation, examinations and courses as well as the internship agreements of the IFAPME network for the 2019-2020 training year on behalf of COVID-19 Report to the Government and Article-by-article examination of CHAPTER I. - Definitions Article 1. In that Article, different definitions are given to help understand the scope of the decision. Article 1, 1° The training centres of the IFAPME network, referred to in the decision "recognized training centres," have been set up as a non-profit association and, in order to be recognised as part of the IFAPME network, have received a prior recognition. Article 1, 2° to 4° That Article does not require any special discussion. Article 1 5° That Article introduces the concept of "candidate for an alternating training" which applies to the student who is following courses (either general knowledge and integrated knowledge) and who wishes to conclude a contract of altern learning.Art. 5. As a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, for the last years of the learning process no course could be organized as originally planned from 14 March 2020. That article therefore specifies the subjects on which evaluations can be carried out and the possibility of providing, face-to-face or by means of distance learning, new courses in the field of essential skills. Art. 6. Considering the COOVID-19 pandemic and its implications for the organisation of the courses (in particular, the suspension/partial organisation of face-to-face courses and the introduction of a provision of distance training and follow-up) are the course planning for the final years of learning and the examination periods (in particular, for the first and second seasons) affected by the organisation of the examinations for the 2019-2020 training year.For the purpose of organizing the examinations for the first time, the final date for holding the meetings of the Board of Training Workers shall also be adapted for the purposes of the examination period. Article 12. That article provides that the meeting of the Supervisory Committee at the end of the learning process may be held face-to-face as well as at a distance. As the periods for organizing the examinations have been adjusted, the deadline for holding the meeting of the Supervisory Committee is also adjusted. Article 13. As a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, it has not been possible to organise the courses as head of enterprise for the last years of the training course. That article therefore specifies the subjects on which evaluations can be carried out and the possibility of, face-to-face or by means of distance learning, new subjects in the field of essential skills. Furthermore, it is stated that in some departments whose list is established by the Institute, the assessments are compulsory.Having regard to the CoviD-19 pandemic and its consequences for the organisation of the courses (in particular the suspension/partial organisation of face-to-face courses and the introduction of a provision of distance training and follow-up) are also affected by the course planning for training as an entrepreneur and the examination periods (both for the first and second seasons) that determines the periods for the organisation of the examinations for the 2019-2020 training year. Art. 19. As a result of the CoviD-19 pandemic, it has not been possible to organise the training courses as an entrepreneur as originally planned from 14 March 2020 onwards. That article therefore specifies the subjects on which evaluations can be carried out and the possibility to provide new courses for distance courses. Article 20. That Article stipulates that the meeting of the training workers and the meeting of the supervisory committee for the intermediate years of the training as an undertaking's head.This article provides that for the last year, the distance management courses will be maintained, except for students with difficulties, for whom the courses face-to-face will be given in the recognized training centre. The courses professional knowledge and integrated knowledge will be partially face-to-face and remotely given. CHAPTER IV. - Changes in the decision of the Walloon Government of 16 July 1998 concerning the training agreement in the framework of the permanent formation of the middle classes and the small and medium enterprises Art. 24. That article provides that for the internship agreements, the transition to the upper scale is to be made only after the decision of the Board of Trainers of 2019-2020 after 30 September 2020.According to Article 84, paragraph 1, paragraph 3°, of the laws 'on the Council of State', coordinated on 12 January 1973, the request for an opinion shall, in particular, state the reasons justifying the urgency of the matter.In accordance with Article 84, paragraph 3 of the abovementioned coordinated laws. On these three points, the draft of the following remarks. PRELIMINARY FORM REQUIREMENTS The opinion of the Council of State shall be requested simultaneously with the unanimous opinion of the College of the French Community Committee. If the draft of the latter consultation were to be amended on points other than purely formal and separate from the points covered by this opinion, it should be resubmitted to the Legislative Section. GENERAL NOTE Several provisions of the draft refer to "health measures required by the National Security Council'. These measures are, in fact, the measures taken in formal form by the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 'containing urgent measures to restrict the spread of the coronavirus COOVID-19'. It is up to this ministerial decision and to the decisions which it shall replace, where appropriate, that such reference be made.Article 4 is the only provision of the draft which seeks to amend an existing decision. Even though it follows from Article 25 of the draft that point 4° inserted by Article 4 in Article 5 (1) of the Walloon Government's decision of 31 August 2000 "on continuous evaluation and examinations in continuing training for small and medium-sized enterprises" (hereinafter referred to as the "evaluation decision"), on 31 December 2020 it would be clearer to establish autonomously, like the other provisions of the draft, Article 4 and give the Centre for the permanent training of small and medium-sized enterprises the power to organise also the final evaluation of candidates for alternance training, in addition to the powers provided for in Article 5 (1) of the evaluation decision.These two observations shall also apply to Articles 13 and 19 of the draft. Article 5, as set out in Articles 5 and 10, shall be interpreted as meaning that, in order to ensure the uniformity between the different training centres in the field of such evaluations, it shall be possible to ensure, either face-to-face, at the end of the course, that, in principle, this uniformity can also be ensured in the event of cancellation of the tests.Article 22 In the first paragraph of the French draft version, the words "exam pratique de fin de stade" shall be replaced by the words "exam C" (see paragraph 1 of Article 23 of the draft). Articles 25 and 26 1. Articles 25 (1) and 26 provide that Articles 2 to 23 shall have effect on 18 May 2020 and Article 24 shall have effect on 14 March 2020. 2. It shall be stated that administrative acts under a general principle of law shall not, as a general rule, have retroactive effect. However, the retroactive effect may be justified if the law allows it. If it is not permitted by the law, it shall only be acceptable by way of exception, in so far as it is necessary for the continuity of the public service or for the regularisation of a legal status or a factual situation and in so far as the requirements of legal certainty are satisfied and individual rights are met.Having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on the continuing evaluation of small and medium-sized enterprises; having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 16 July 1998 on the training agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the permanent training agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the medium-sized enterprises; having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on the continuing training agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the permanent training agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the report of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on the training courses for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the permanent training agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Community; having regard to the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on the permanent training courses for small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework of the permanent training agreement of 16 July 1998;Whereas, on 11 March 2020, WHO labelled the coronavirus COVID-19 as a pandemic; having regard to the WHO declaration on the characteristics of the coronavirus COVID-19, in particular the high infectiousness, the risk of mortality and the number of cases detected; having regard to the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 on European territory and in Belgium; having regard to the urgent need and health risk posed by the coronavirus COVID-19 to the Belgian population; having regard to the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19, which aims, in particular, to restrict the movement and social contacts of persons; having regard to the impact of the health crisis on the recognized institutes of the Institut wallon de formation and alternance et des indépenants et moyennes entreprises;2° 'evaluation decision' means the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on continuing evaluation and examinations of continuing training for small and medium-sized enterprises; 2° 'training decision' means the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on continuing training courses for small and medium-sized enterprises; 2° 'Instituut' means the Institute established by the Decree of 17 July 2003 establishing an Institut wallon de formation en alternance et des indépendants et des petites et moyennes entreprises;In the case of distance courses, the training centre shall take measures to ensure access to these courses for all students. Art. 6. In derogation from Article 7 of the Decision on the basis of Article 7 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 20 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 20 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 30 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 30 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 30 of the Agreement on the basis of Article 30 of the Agreement on Alternating Learning and which, without complying with the condition referred to in Article 1, follows a training course equivalent to that of the Contract on Alternating Learning; the evaluation shall take place in the course during the year in which the training course ends;On the basis of a detailed reasoned opinion, the Board of Appeal shall decide, on the basis of the success of the second sitting period or, on the basis of a detailed reasoned opinion, on the failure of the student, on the basis of the Board of Trainers referred to in paragraph 1, on the basis of the same meeting of the supervisory committee of face-to-face or distance referred to in Article 19 of the evaluation decision, and may, at the latest by 15 December 2020. Article 10. The evaluations of the general knowledge, professional knowledge and integrated knowledge referred to in Article 16 of the evaluation decision shall be organized on the basis of the professional courses provided until 13 March 2020 face-to-face. The distance courses may include new courses but may not be evaluated. In the case of distance courses, the recognised training centre shall take measures to ensure access to these courses for all pupils concerned.The meeting of the Board of Training Workers shall be organized in accordance with Article 34 of the Evaluation Decision. As regards the training course, the Board shall decide on the success of the training course, on the basis of a detailed opinion, on the basis of the results of the training course referred to in Article 17. The meeting of the Board of Education Workers shall be organized in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 34 of the Evaluation Decision.It shall meet, at the latest by 30 November 2020 at the latest. After the board of trainers referred to in paragraph 1, the supervisory committee of face-to-face or at a distance referred to in Article 19 of the evaluation decision shall meet, and at the latest by 15 December 2020 at the latest. CHAPTER III. - Changes to the decision of the Walloon Government of 31 August 2000 on training courses in the permanent training of small and medium-sized enterprises Art. 21. The courses referred to in the course decision may be organized at a distance or face-to-face. The organisation of the courses in the approved training centre shall be carried out in accordance with the necessary health measures. Art. 22. With due regard to the required health measures, the recognised training centre for the training year 2019-2020 and in relation to the courses of students with difficulties between 17 August and 30 September 2020 additional face-to-face courses shall be organized on the basis of the institute's essential skills, in order to enable pupils to continue in the following years or to prepare for their C examination.CHAPTER V. - Entry into force Art. 25. This Decision shall enter into force on the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal with the exception of Articles 5, 10, 13 and 19 which will have effect on 14 March 2020 until 31 December 2020. Art. 26. The Minister responsible for alternance training and self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises is responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Names, 19 June 2020. For the Government: The Prime Minister, E. DI RUPO The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade, Research, Innovation, Digital Technologies, Spatial Planning, Agriculture, the "IFAPME," and the Skills Centres, W. BORSUS