Royal Decree No 35 amending Royal Decree No 10 of 19 April 2020 for the award of and the rules for the distribution and settlement of an advance to general hospitals in the context of the epidemic by the Coronavirus COVID-19 REPORT TO THE KONING Sire, The draft which you are now being presented complements a draft which you have already signed, in particular the Royal Decree No 10 for the award of and the rules for the distribution and settlement of an advance to general hospitals in the context of the epidemic by the Coronavirus COVID-19. The context and objectives set out in the report to the King in the decision in question therefore continue to apply in full. The clinical situation in the hospitals is currently stable and the number of COVID-19 patients is steadily decreasing. However, the COVID-19 crisis has lost its strength in favour of the hospitals.The second tranche of EUR 500 million in advance will also be granted in October 2020. A monitoring of the financial situation of the hospitals will be initiated in such a way as to ensure that the mechanisms provided for are sufficient. If necessary, a new disc will have to be released, in particular if a new wave occurs or if the activities in the hospitals remain impacted for some time so that the hospital's income is insufficient to cover all their costs or additional costs. In this case, a new disk will be released in order to avoid treasury problems and maintain the financial viability of the sector. If the same circumstances arise, measures will have to be taken again which will have an important impact on the use of the budgets of the sickness insurance scheme. During the last few weeks a strong reduction in hospital activity has been identified which results in a significant reduction in the expenditure of the various partial rehabilitation objectives of the medical care.Such compensation shall be granted without prior notification. The proposed measures in this case comply with the conditions of the above decision of 20 December 2011. The aid granted shall also constitute compensation for the performance of the service of general interest entrusted to hospitals in accordance with Article 2 of the coordinated law on hospitals and other health care institutions of 10 July 2008. As mentioned above, the avoidance of overcompensation shall be ensured in accordance with the general rules for the final determination of the BFM. In Article 1 of the draft a new Article 1/1 to CB No 10 is added. This Article describes the mechanism of the second advance with the above threshold for the second disk. The advance is divided into two discs of 500 million euro. This Article 2 adds an Article 3/1 to KB No 10. The original text of KB No 10 does not expressly provide that the advance would be offset by a final amount determined by the application of Article 101 of the hospital law. This Article allows the hospital law to cover costs for additional services during an epidemic.I have the honour of being, Sire, Van Uwe majesty, the very respectful and very faithful servant, The Minister of Social Affairs and Health, M. DE BLOCK COUNCIL OF STATE Department Legislation Opinion 67.584/3 of 16 June 2020 on a draft Royal Decree No 35 "to amend Royal Decree No 10 of 19 April 2020 for the award and the rules for the distribution and clearance of an advance to general hospitals in the context of the epidemic by the Coronavirus COVID 19' On 9 June 2020, the Council of State Department of Legislation, by the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, and of Asylum and Migration, was asked to give an opinion within a period of five working days on a draft Royal Decree No 35 "to amend the Royal Decree No 10 of 19 April 2020 for the granting and the rules for the distribution and settlement of an advance to general hospitals in the framework of the epidemic by the COVID-19'.Article 1 of the draft Decision provides for the introduction of a new advance, which will be granted in two instalments of EUR 500 million each (drafted Article 1/1). The first instalment is immediately released, the second from October. Unlike the existing advance, that new advance will be granted not only to the general hospitals but also to the psychiatric hospitals. Article 2 of the draft Decision provides for the insertion of a new Article 3/1 in Royal Decree No 10 of 19 April 2020, which clarifies that both the existing and the new advance will be offset by the reimbursement of the cost of services during the epidemic which will be borne by the budget of the hospitals pursuant to Article 101 of the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments' (hereinafter referred to as 'the hospital law').Article 6 of the draft Decision seeks to remove the word "general" from the heading of Royal Decree No 10 of 19 April 2020, since the decision is now applicable to both general and psychiatric hospitals. The decision to be taken shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal (Article 7).It is also clear from this draft amending act that the advance payments in most cases will not be recovered, but will be offset by the compensation of the effective costs of the pandemic which may be charged to the budget of financial resources in accordance with Article 101 of the Hospital Act in accordance with Article 101 of the Hospital Act, without the fact that it has already been defined which costs are precisely eligible for reimbursement and under what conditions (see also note 5). Moreover, the possibility for hospitals that would receive too much to distribute the set-off over several years of service is laid down in the facts as regards the granting of an interest-free loan. As set out in Opinion 67.210/3, the activities of hospitals may be regarded as services of general economic interest which can escape the State rules, but must also now be determined that the conditions for compensation for performance in the context of public service obligations are not to be regarded as State aid.The Royal Decree of 19 April 2020 provides that the condition of the Coronavirus COVID-19 epidemic on the Belgian territory', which provides for the possibility of applying that provision of law. (2) Comments 5.1 to 5.3 of that opinion. (3) Communication from the Commission - Temporary framework for State aid in support of the economy due to the current COVID-19 outbreak (2020/C 91 I/01) as amended (https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/NL/ALL/?uri=CELEX:52020XC0320(03)). (4) OJ 24 July 2003, C-280/00, Altmark Trans GmbH and Regierungspräsidium Magdeburg, ECLI:EU:C:2003:415. See the conditions laid down in the Commission Decision 2012/21/EU of 20 December 2011 on the application of Article 106 (2) of the Treaty on the operation of the European Union to State aid in the form of compensation granted to certain services of general interest in respect of C:The Minister for Budget, given on 4 June 2020; Having regard to Article 8, § 2, 1° and 2°, of the Law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification, this Decision is exempt from the regulatory impact analysis; having regard to the opinion of the Council of State, given on 16 June 2020, applying Article 4, third paragraph, of the Law of 27 March 2020 authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 (I); whereas the hospitals as a result of the epidemic by the coronavirus COVID-19 affecting Belgium, have to cope with unusual, high and unforeseen additional costs; since the end of the epidemic is not yet in sight; since in the event of a strong revival of the number of infected persons the normal services of hospitals will be quickly reduced, with a strong impact on the liquidity position of these hospitals; since the regular channels for the financing of the hospitals cannot be granted any additional budgets to the hospitals;For the purpose of determining and settling the budget of the hospital's financial resources, the King may determine the manner in which the balance is to be deducted and the possible spread over time over several budgets of financial resources. In order to make the payment of the reimbursement of the costs pursuant to Article 101 of the Coordinated Law to hospitals and other care establishments more rapid, this payment or part of it may, by way of derogation from the normal payment mechanism of the budget of the hospitals' financial resources, be made directly to hospitals. The King may lay down detailed rules for the payment of the allowance and the set-off of the advance payments. Article 3 of the same Decision shall be supplemented by one paragraph, as defined in Article 2 of the RIZIV documents P, supplemented by the variable part of his financial resources, the provisional execution of the advance payment of an advance calculated on the basis of the part of each hospital in relation to the total expenditure of the hospitals for the whole of the activities referred to in Article 1 (1).Minister for Social Affairs and Health, M. DE BLOCK