The request for referral of a matter to arbitration shall be made in writing to one or both competent authorities; the request shall contain sufficient information to identify the matter; the request shall be accompanied by a written statement by each of the persons who have either submitted the request for arbitration or are directly involved in the matter, that no judgment has yet been given by a court or administrative court of the Contracting States on the same issues. Within 10 days of receipt of the request, the competent authority which has received the request and has no indication that it has also been sent to the other competent authority, shall send a copy of that request and the accompanying declarations to the other competent authority. Part 2. - Minimum information required for an examination of the case 2.1. For the application of Article 19 of the Convention, references to "information necessary for a thorough examination of the matter" and "the minimum information required for each competent authority to carry out a thorough examination of the matter to be sent to the competent authority of Australia shall be made in accordance with the following conditions:The competent authorities shall jointly determine the questions to be resolved by the arbitration panel, as provided for by the arbitration panel (or by a copy thereof) in writing to the applicant for arbitration. These are the "working rules" for the case. Without prejudice to the following provisions in this "Memorandum of Understanding," the competent authorities may also provide in their operating rules different or additional procedural rules from those laid down in these provisions, and shall deal with any other matter which they consider appropriate. (b) If no notice has been given to the applicant for arbitration within the time limit specified in paragraph (a) above, the person and any competent authority may, within 30 days of the expiry of this Memorandum of Understanding, inform each other in writing of a list of matters to be settled by arbitration.In such circumstances, the member of the arbitration panel shall be appointed on the basis of the list of persons identified in accordance with paragraph 4.8. and shall be provided by the competent authority which has failed to appoint a member of the panel. If no list has been provided in accordance with paragraph 4.8. or if none of the persons on the list is available, a member shall be appointed on behalf of the competent authority by and to the approval of the official with the highest rank of the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) who is not a national of any of the Contracting States. (c) If the two original members of the arbitration panel fail to appoint the chairman within the time limits laid down in paragraph 4.1. (a), the chairman shall be appointed by the official with the highest rank of the Centre for Tax Policy and Administration of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) of the State of origin.The competent authorities shall, for example, appoint arbitrators to have such expertise or experience in international tax matters. However, they shall have no experience as judge or arbitrator. Any arbitrator appointed for the arbitration panel shall be impartial and independent of the competent authorities, tax administrations and ministries of finance of the Contracting States and of any persons directly involved in the matter (including their advisers and persons related to them). The arbitrators shall in particular not be in the service of the competent authorities, tax administrations and ministries of finance of the Contracting States and of any persons directly involved in the matter (including their advisers and persons related to them) for a period of 12 months prior to their appointment and to the time at which they accept their appointment. The arbitrators shall, during the whole procedure, retain their impartiality and independence and for 12 months after the panel has made a decision as referred to in paragraph 5.7. or paragraph 5.8. (g), as the case, or during any other period jointly determined by the competent authorities, avoid any conduct which may prejudice to the appearance of impartiality and independence of the arbitrator with respect to the arbitration of the arbitration.The competent authorities may not, within the time limit laid down in paragraph 5 of this Article, adopt a list of at least 5 persons designated by them as competent and willing to serve as Chair of an arbitration panel. The competent authorities shall review and amend this list if necessary. The persons designated for this list shall comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 4.4. 4.8. Each competent authority shall draw up a list of at least 5 persons who are competent and willing to serve as members of the arbitration panel. Each competent authority shall review and amend this list if necessary. The persons designated for those lists shall meet the conditions set out in paragraph 4.4. Part 5. - Arbitration procedure 5.1. Within 90 days of the appointment of the chairman of the arbitration panel panel (unless the competent authorities determine any other period before the end of that period, or agree between them to use any other type of arbitration procedure, as described in paragraph 5.8., in relation to the relevant case), shall submit to the chairman of each Contracting State a proposed solution, in which shall deal with all unresolved matters (unless the competent authorities shall determine any other period of time within the period of that period of time within which the period of that period shall be considered by either of time.The Chair shall forward the supporting position papers to the other members of the arbitration panel and to the other competent authority within the time limit laid down in paragraph 5.1., if this is the case earlier, the Chair shall forward the supporting position papers to the other members of the arbitration panel and to the other competent authority. Each Annex to a supporting position note shall be a document provided by one competent authority to the other, or by the taxpayer to the two competent authorities, to be used in the negotiation of the matter subject to the mutual consultation procedure. 5.3. In the event that the competent authority of one Contracting State fails to submit a proposed solution within the time limit laid down in paragraph 5.1., the Chairman of the arbitration panel shall also inform the competent authority that, where no proposed solution is submitted to the chairman of the arbitration panel within a further period of seven days, the arbitration panel shall choose the proposed solution submitted by the other competent authority as its ruling. 5.4. Each competent authority may also submit a reply in response to the proposed solution and supporting position paper submitted by the other competent authority. Any such response shall be submitted to the arbitration panel within a further period of seven days following the appointment of the arbitration panel.within a period of 90 days after receipt by the arbitrators of the final statement of reply or, if no statement of response has been submitted, within 180 days of the appointment of the Chair of the arbitration panel. The arbitration panel ruling shall not be subject to precedent. 5.8. (a) If, within a period of 60 days from the appointment of the Chair of the arbitration panel, the competent authorities agree to use the approach described in this paragraph, each competent authority shall provide the arbitration panel and the other competent authority with all the information it considers necessary for the panel to reach a decision within 120 days of this agreement. That information shall include a description of the facts and unresolved issues on which a decision is to be taken, together with the views of the competent authority on these matters and the arguments supporting that position. Unless the competent authorities decide otherwise, the arbitration panel shall not take account of any information available to both competent authorities before the request for arbitration (or a copy) by both competent authorities.The arbitration panel shall meet, decide the competent authorities where and when this meeting will continue and transmit this information to the arbitrators. (e) The arbitrators shall decide on the matters subject to arbitration in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Agreement, as amended by the Convention, and, without prejudice to those provisions, with the provisions of the national legislation of the Contracting States. The arbitrators shall also consider any other sources which the competent authorities of the Contracting States may expressly designate by mutual agreement. (f) Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, as amended by the Agreement, and of this Memorandum of Understanding, the arbitrators shall immediately adopt the rules of procedure and evidence which they consider necessary to give a ruling on the undissolved matters which are subject to arbitration. (g) Unless the competent authorities agree otherwise, the arbitration ruling shall be delivered in writing to the competent authorities of the Contracting States within 365 days of the date of appointment of the Chair, stating the grounds and reasons for which it is based.(c) the arbitrational decision shall not be invalid by any of the other parties, if it has already been decided. 6.3. Before initiating the arbitration procedure, any person who has submitted the matter, including their advisers, shall, in writing, agree not to disclose to any other person any information which they have received in the course of the arbitration procedure, either from the competent authorities or from the arbitration panel. 6.4. If a person who has submitted the matter, or one of his advisers, does not physically comply with the agreement referred to in paragraph 6.3. at any time after a request for arbitration has been submitted and before the arbitration panel has given its ruling to the competent authorities, the procedure for mutual consultation provided for in the Agreement, and the arbitration procedure relating to the case, shall be terminated. 6.5. Before the chairman is appointed, the competent authorities shall send all correspondence to both arbitrators. 6.6. After the chairman has been appointed, unless the competent authorities and the chairman jointly agree otherwise, the competent authorities shall send all correspondence to the chairman (with a copy to the other competent authority).The arbitration panel may, if necessary, establish the additional procedures necessary for the performance of its duties, provided that these procedures are not contrary to a provision of Part VI of the Convention or Article 25 of the Agreement, as amended by Article 16 of the Convention. 7.2. If the arbitration panel establishes additional procedures, the chairman shall provide a written copy thereof to the competent authorities. These procedures shall be applied only if both competent authorities mutually agree with it. Part 8. - Costs 8.1. Unless the competent authorities agree otherwise jointly: (a) each competent authority and the person who has requested arbitration shall bear the costs associated with their own participation in the arbitration procedure (including travel expenses and costs related to the preparation and presentation of its positions); (b) all other costs related to the arbitration procedure shall be borne equally by both competent authorities. 8.2. The competent authorities shall jointly in writing determine the reimbursement of the arbitrators's proceedings in accordance with this Memorandum of Understanding including:In such a case, the application for arbitration as referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 19 of the Convention shall be deemed not to have been submitted to the arbitration procedure of Part II of this Agreement, and the arbitration procedure shall be deemed not to have taken place (except for the application of Article 21 (Confidentiality of the arbitration procedure) and Article 25 (Cost of the arbitration procedure) of the Convention and Parts 6 and 8 of this Memorandum of Understanding). In such a case, the person who has submitted a request for arbitration may submit a new application for arbitration, which shall be accepted unless the competent authorities jointly agree that the actions of that person or his representatives have not been the main grounds for declaring the arbitration ruling. 10.2. It is agreed that component (a) of paragraph (b) of Article 19 of the Convention shall be applied where, under the national law of a Contracting State, a judicial authority has declared the arbitration ruling invalid on the basis of a procedural error or other conduct which has substantially affected the outcome of the arbitration procedure, which may be included:to the competent authority of a Contracting State on or after the last of the dates on which the Convention entered into force for each of the Contracting States. Part 13. - Reserved as regards the scope of the matters eligible for arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Part VI of the Convention 13.1. Pursuant to paragraph (a) of Article 28 (2) of the Convention, the following reservation was made regarding the scope of the matters eligible for arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Part VI of the Convention: (a) by Australia reserves the right to exclude from the scope of Part VI of the Convention any matter in so far as the scope of the general anti-abuse provisions of Australia is concerned, which are contained in Part IVA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and Section 67 of the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986. Australia also reserves the right to extend the scope of the exclusion for the general anti-abuse provisions of Australia to all provisions which replace, amend or update.