Decision of the Brussels Capital Government to appoint the members of the selection committee for the allocation of a mandate of Director/Director Head of Unit A4 Back Office of the Regional Public Service Brussels Fiscality THE BRUSSELS CITY GOVERNMENT, having regard to the special law of 12 January 1989 relating to the Brussels institutions, and in particular Article 40 thereof; having regard to the decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 21 March 2018 on the administrative status and remuneration arrangements of officials of the Regional Administrations of Brussels, in particular Article 446; having regard to the appointment of a mandate of Director/Director Head of Unit A4 Back Office of the Regional Administration Brussels Fiscality is required to appoint the members of a selection committee; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget; having regard to the fact that Mr Alexandre DE MunCK (FR) has experience as a legal adviser, in particular as regards fiscal law and that he was also an expert in the Brussels-Fiscality Task Force, as part of the work of a selection committee; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of the Budget; having regard to the fact that Mr Alexandre DE MunCK (F) has been a legal adviser, having been a member of theMrs Carole DEMBOUR (FR) 4. Mrs Stéphanie LECLERE (FR) 5. Mr Bernard STENIER (FR) That Mr Bernard Stenier shall be appointed chairman of the selection committee for the assignment of the position of Deputy Director/Director-General A4 Back Office of the Regional Public Service Brussels Fiscality. Art. 2. No member shall be allowed to sit if he is in a situation likely to compromise his impartiality. Art. 3. The Minister responsible for the Public Administration shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Art. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the day on which it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Brussels, 25 March 2021. For the Brussels Capital Government: R. VERGROGT, Prime Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, responsible for Territorial Development and Urban Renewal, Tourism, the Promotion of the Imago of Brussels and Bicultural Affairs of Regional Interest.