Law amending book XX of the Code of Economic Law and the Code of Income Tax 1992 FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greeting. The Chamber has adopted and We enforce what follows: CHAPTER 1. - General provision Article 1. This law governs a matter as referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. CHAPTER 2. - Amendments to the Code of Economic Law Art. 2. In Article XX.2 of the Code of Economic Law, inserted by the Act of 11 August 2017, the provision under 2° shall be supplemented by the words "with the exception of the Decision referred to in Article XX.39/1." Article 3. In book XX, Title I, Chapter 2, of the same Code, inserted by the Act of 11 August 2017, an Article XX.11/1, shall be inserted: "Art. XX.11/1. When the provisions of this book provide for a report by the Judge or the Delegated Judge, the report may also be written, provided that the date for the report to be recorded in Article XX."Art. XX.39/1. § 1. At the one-sided request of the debtor, the chairman of the company court may not appoint a court officer for the purposes of Article XX.67, as provided for in Article XX.67. The debtor must, in his application, demonstrate that the continuity of the undertaking is threatened immediately or in due course, within the meaning of Article XX.45. The debtor shall attach to his application the documents provided for in Article XX.41, Paragraph 2, first paragraph, 1°, 3° and 4°. The application and the following elements of the procedure shall not be entered in the register by the debtor and shall be retained therein. The President of the court shall designate a court judge in accordance with Article XX.42. This decision shall not be published.The court may decide to initiate the negotiations with one or more creditors and to extend them to other creditors only at a later stage. The notice by the court officer shall be made in accordance with Article XX.49, Paragraph 1, paragraph 3 and shall be used as a notification within the meaning of Article XX.49. In the course of the notification, the court officer shall invite the creditors to register in the register. The court officer may, during the preparatory phase, request an appeal against the names or names, address and, where appropriate, the undertaking of the debtor and of the ongoing negotiations, taking into account the damage caused by the measure to creditors and the general interest, conditions and/or time limits adapted to the needs of the debtor.In a reasoned decision adopted by the debtor with the creditor concerned, the court shall, for the purposes of applying Article XX.46, § 6, Paragraph 6, at the request of the court officer, which shall attach the reorganisation plan and an explanation thereto, the President of the court shall, after hearing the debtor and on the report of the court delegate, forward the file to the court together with a reasoned decision, if the approval of the reorganisation plan within the meaning of Article XX.78 appears sufficiently plausible, to apply Article XX.46, § 7. By the decision to refer the case to the court, the debtor shall be protected under Article XX.44. § 8. The debtor may, at any time during the procedure, waive all or part of his claim for preliminary agreement. At the request of the debtor, from the court officer or of his own motion, after hearing of the debtor and after hearing the report of the court, terminate the proceedings in whole or in part.Article XX.46 of the same Code, inserted by the Law of 11 August 2017, shall be supplemented by paragraphs 5 and 6: § 5."The second paragraph of Article 2 of the same Code, inserted by the law of 11 August 2017, shall be replaced by the words "or XX.36" by the words "or XX.39/1," Article 13. In Article XX.77, second paragraph, of the same Code, inserted by the law of 11 August 2017, the second indent shall be supplemented by the words "and, where appropriate, the detailed rules under which the electronic vote will take place." Article 14. In Article XX.78 of the same Code, inserted by the law of 11 August 2017, the following amendments shall be added to the register at the beginning of the electronic sitting: "The vote on the plan shall be carried out electronically by means of a meeting where the creditors are present or by electronic communication. If the session is conducted electronically, the creditor who wishes to submit observations, which shall be inserted in the register at the beginning of the session held in accordance with the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article."Royal Decree extends the period mentioned in the second paragraph. The King may determine a date of entry into force for Articles 3, 13 and 14 prior to the date mentioned in the first paragraph. Announcing this law, recommend that it be held with the Land's seal and will be published by the Belgian Official Journal. Given in Brussels, 21 March 2021. FILIP Van Koningswege: The Minister of Finance, V. VAN PETEGHEM The Minister of Justice, V. VANQUICKENBORNE Sealed with the Land's seal: The Minister of Justice, V. VAN QUICKENBORNE _________ Note (1) Chamber of Representatives (www.dekamer.be) Stukken. - 1337/ (2019/2020) Integral Report: 04/03/2021