Decision of the Brussels Capital Government implementing Articles 24 to 26 of the Order of 21 December 2012 establishing the fiscal procedure in the Brussels Capital Region The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the order of 21 December 2012 establishing the fiscal procedure in the Brussels Capital Region, Article 24, first and second paragraphs, as amended by the order of 7 December 2017, and Articles 25 and 26, third to fifth paragraphs, as amended by the decrees of 18 December 2015 and 7 December 2017; having regard to the equal opportunities test carried out on 19 December 2019 in accordance with Article 2 of the Order of 4 October 2018 introducing the equal opportunities test; having regard to the opinion No 24/2020 of the Data Protection Authority, given on 13 March 2020; having regard to opinion 66.960/4 of the Council of State, given on 19 February 2020, applying Article 84, first paragraph, 2° of the Laws of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973;(c) in the absence of the accounting officer responsible for tax matters, the power referred to in paragraph 1 shall be exercised by the Deputy accounting officer responsible for tax matters. (c) in the event of the absence of the accounting officer responsible for tax matters, the power shall be exercised by the Deputy accounting officer responsible for tax matters. (c) in the event of the notification being sent to him in accordance with point 1°. If the communication is sent in accordance with point 1°, the date of dispatch of the notice shall be understood as the date of receipt of the notice.The following shall not be used in the case of: 1° by means of a procedure using information technology; or 2° by means of a registered letter: if the notification has been made in accordance with the procedure laid down in point 1°, the date of dispatch of that notification shall be understood as the date of the functional notification of the notification. § 2. If the same notification is sent by registered letter, the notification shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of the same notification by means of a procedure which uses information technology when the date of transmission of the information is different from the date of dispatch by registered letter. § 3. The notification shall contain the following information: 1° Details of the consignor and the consignee; 2° Reference procedure; 2° Reference number referred to in Article 7; 4° Indication of the debtor/taxer: a) In the case of a natural person:(a) where the person concerned is a natural person: the identification number referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and address of the person concerned;a legal person in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and name of the registered office, in the name and in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and in the name and address of the registered office, in the name and address of the registered office;The confidentiality of electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. The technique used shall not be determined by the JOBF, after consultation with the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notariat. Such information shall be retained by the consignor for a period of 10 years and shall be submitted within a reasonable period of time. Article 7. - Identification of the persons involved in the transmission of message, information and notification In the context of the transmission of messages, information and notifications, the persons concerned shall be identified in the following manner: - in the case of a legal person, using the identification number referred to in Article III.17 of the Code of Economic Law; - in the case of a natural person, using the identification number referred to in Article 4 (2) of the Law of 15 January 1990 establishing and organising a cross point bank of information of the social security number in the bisregister, and, where appropriate, using the identification number referred to in Article III.17 of the Code of Economic Law.The Minister responsible for Finance is responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Brussels, 26 March 2020. For the Brussels Capital Government: The Minister-President of the Brussels Capital Government, R. VERFORT The Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, in charge of Finance, Budget, Public Office and the Promotion of Multilingualism, S. GATZ, the Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, R. VERFORT The Minister of the Brussels Capital Government, in charge of Finance, Budget, Public Office and the Promotion of Multilingualism, S. GATZ is the same, regardless of whether they are communicated by means of a procedure in which IT techniques are used or by registered letter.