The Royal Decree approving the Regulation adopted for the purpose of implementing the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and limiting the use of cash for traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds registered pursuant to Article 169 (3) of the Programme Law of 2 August 2002 FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. Having regard to the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and limiting the use of cash, Article 86 (1), second paragraph; Having regard to the Royal Decree of 7 October 2013 approving the Regulation adopted in implementation of the Law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and the financing of terrorism for traders in diamonds registered under Article 169, § 3, of the Programme Law of 2 August 2002; Having regard to the Opinion of the Interministerial Economic Commission, given on 18 September 2019; To the Minister of Economy, Hebben We decide and decide to: Article 1.The registered traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds (as defined below) make use of this Regulation, as approved by the Royal Decree of 1 July 2020 (hereinafter referred to as KB), and taken in implementation of the Law, in order as such to comply with the provisions of the Law. The Federal Public Service Economy, K.O., Middle Classes and Energy prefers to limit the text and content of this Regulation to the essentials of the law by registered traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds. In addition to its regulatory powers, the Federal Public Service Economy, K.O., Middle Classes and Energy is to establish effective mechanisms to monitor compliance by traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds with the obligations of:AWDC also supports the traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds in complying with their anti-money laundering obligations; 4° "dealer in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds": a trader in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds registered with the Federal Government Service's Authorisations Service Economy, K.M.O., Middle Classes and Energy pursuant to Article 169, § 3 of the Programme Act of 2 August 2002 and the Royal Decree of 20 November 2019 laying down measures concerning the supervision of the diamond sector and thus holding a registration number. The list of registered traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds can be consulted via www.registereddiamond Companies.be or through a search on the website of the Cross Point Bank of Enterprises (http://economic.fgov.be) where more comprehensive information is available. For the rest, the terms used in this Regulation have the same meaning as in the law.Such policies, procedures and measures shall be proportionate to the nature and extent of the diamond trade in question. Art. 5. § 1. In the implementation of Article 9 of the Act, the subject diamond trader and/or synthetic diamond must designate a responsible person to monitor the implementation of the policy relating to money laundering, the financing of terrorism and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WG/FTP policy). § 2. The person referred to in Paragraph 1 shall establish annually for the purposes of the Service of the FOD Economy an activity report in order to provide it, by 31 March of the following year, digitally via www.registereddiamondcompanies.be or on paper to the Office of the FOD Economie. This person shall reply to the truth with regard to the implementation of the anti-money laundering law in the undertaking of the diamond and/or synthetic diamond business, which the FOD Economy Department of the State in order to notify the risk of the company in question of theThe client and to the nature of the business relationship or the desired occasional operation, in order to remain vigilant during business relations or occasional transactions for risks, and to take measures to reduce the identified risks, in accordance with Article 8, § 2, 1°, of the Act. § 2. The subject traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds base themselves on the document "anti-money laundering policy for the Belgian diamond dealer" made available to them by the Office of the FOD Economy and by AWD. § 3. This anti-money laundering and client acceptance policy enables the subject traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds in particular to provide their full cooperation to the prevention of WG/FT risks through appropriate knowledge and an appropriate examination of the characteristics of their client, of the products, services or transactions offered by them, of the countries or geographical areas concerned and of the delivery channels to which an appeal is made. Subsection 2.the person referred to in Articles 21 to 24 of the Law who are not Belgian registered traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds by making enquiries in reliable and independent sources and databases available to traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds, in accordance with the anti-money laundering policy of this one. The trader in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds also screen his client for potential WG/FT risks. Art. 10. The subject traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds participating in a trade fair and thereby making use of the possibility of derogation provided for in Article 31 of the Law and the identity of the persons referred to in Articles 21 to 23 of the Law during the business relationship verify, establish in their internal rules appropriate measures to ensure compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 31. Subsection 4. - Notification of presumptions Art. 11.pursuant to Article 169 (3) of the Programme Act of 2 August 2002, which was approved by the Royal Decree of 7 October 2013. Having regard to our decision of 1 July 2020 approving the Regulations taken in implementation of the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and limiting the use of cash for traders in diamonds and/or synthetic diamonds registered under Article 169, § 3 of the Programme Act of 2 August 2002. FILIP Van Koningswege : De Minister van Economie, N. MUYLLE