This Royal Decree declaring the collective agreement of 24 March 2020 concluded in the Joint Subcommittee for the subsidised establishments of the free education of the Flemish Community, concerning the measures relating to COVID-19 (1) FILIP, King of Belgians, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. Having regard to the law of 5 December 1968 concerning collective agreements and joint committees, in particular to Article 28; having regard to the request of the Joint Subcommittee for the subsidised establishments of free education of the Flemish Community; Having regard to the proposal of the Minister of Work, Hebben We decide and decide: Article 1. Generally binding is declared the collective agreement of 24 March 2020, annexed to the Joint Subcommittee for the subsidised establishments of free education of the Flemish Community, concerning measures relating to COVID-19.- The employer may in this case request a medical certificate; - The staff member is placed in quarantine. The employer may in this case request a medical certificate. Article 6. The performance of the contract of employment is suspended for reasons of force majeure. During the suspension the staff member receives his normal salary. CHAPTER IV. - Final provisions Article 7. This collective agreement is concluded for an indefinite period of time. It may be denounced by each of the parties subject to a six-month notice period. The notice shall be served by a registered letter and shall be addressed to the chairman of the Joint Subcommittee for the subsidised establishments of the free education of the Flemish Community. Art. 8. In accordance with Article 14 of the Act of 5 December 1968 on collective agreements and the joint committees as regards the signing of this collective agreement, the signatures of the persons who enter into it on behalf of the employees' organizations on the one hand and on the other, replace by the chairman and the secretary of the minutes of the meeting approved by the members.