The decision of the Flemish Government to regulate certain temporary measures in the cultural policy field by reason of the civil emergency in relation to public health under the Coronavirus COVID-19 Legal basis This decision is based on: - the Decree of 20 March 2020 on measures in the event of a civil emergency in relation to public health, Article 5. Formal requirements The following formal requirements are fulfilled: - The Flemish Minister, responsible for the budget, has given his agreement on 2 April 2020. - No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, pursuant to Article 3 (1) of the Laws on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973. The urgent need does not allow them to wait for the opinion of the Council of State within a shorter period of 5 days, for the sake of the corona crisis and the very rapid evolution of the situation. It is of fundamental importance for their financial survival that beneficiaries of a subsidy receive immediate clarity over the costs they can charge for activities under the civil emergency, limited or altered and on the faster disbursement of advances.As regards the operational grants already granted for 2020, mostly an advance payment of 50% or lower of the grant has been paid. An advance payment has been made in the regulatory framework subject to a time limit for the awarding authority. The CJM department can reorganise itself to advance additional advances foreseen for later in the financial year. For example, the government can create a parallel with project grants, where an advance payment of 80% or 90% is common, and the advance payment of July advance payments will advance. An accelerated advance payment can help dampen liquidity problems. - The corona crisis, the federal coronavirus measures and the announcement by the Flemish Government on 20 March of the duration of the civil emergency proceedings will also have a direct impact on the established procedure steps in the decree of 7 July 2017 concerning the subsidisation and recognition of socio-cultural mature work.A new organisation in that particular region needs to be established. Currently 7 out of 13 regional organisations have been visited and received a pre-advisation. One of these is negative, two are positive with recommendations and four are positive. 6 regional organisations have not yet been visited. The proposal is to allow the on-site visits of these 6 regional organisations to take place in the first quarter of 2021. For the 7 regional organisations that have already been visited, the choice is made to deliver the final opinion to the organisation by 15 July. - In accordance with Article 22, § 2, 1° of the Decree of 7 July 2017 concerning the subsidy and recognition of socio-cultural adult work, the quality of the operation of the socio-cultural adult organisations that are not recognised at the time of application on the basis of the decree of 4 April 2003 among other things assessed by the committee on the basis of a discussion with the organisation.- the decision of the Flemish Government of 20 March 2020 establishing a civil emergency with regard to public health, as stated in the Decree of 20 March 2020 on measures in the event of a civil emergency with regard to public health. Initiator This decision is proposed by the Flemish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Culture, ICT and Facilit Management. After deliberation, THE VLAAMSE GOVERNMENT DECISION: Article 1. In monitoring the accountability of grants within the policy field culture, the substantiated costs of subsidised activities that have not been, limited or modified following the civil emergency with regard to public health under the coronavirus COVID-19, within the limits of budget appropriations, shall be taken into account. Art. 2. In the event of the payment of subsidies in the policy field culture is made in several advances and a balance, by way of derogation from the deadlines and decisions, in the year 2020 within the limits of budgetary appropriations, the payment of these advances shall be made to a maximum advance.14, third member of the decision of the Flemish Government of 28 June 2019 on the implementation of the Circus Decree of 1 March 2019, the Framework for Appointments for Research will be concluded in 2020 by 31 October at the latest. The Framework for Appointments for Research will run until 31 March of the year following the beginning of a new period of government. Art. 6. This decision will take effect from 20 March 2020. Art. 7. The Flemish Minister responsible for Culture is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 3 April 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, Flemish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Culture, ICT and Facilitation Management, J. JAMBON