Whereas the Federal Government, in consultation with the Communities and the Regions, may act in a coordinated manner in the context of a pandemic, and in this context the vaccination campaign in progress.The cost of the journey up to the availability at the place of vaccination is 100% pre-financed by the federal government: purchase vaccines, storage and distribution, material, as well as the costs associated with surveillance and coordination of communication. - The cost of the administration of the vaccination is pre-financed by the federated entities. An amount per vaccinated person covers the costs of the administration. The federal government pays part of this amount back to the federated entities, this part is determined on the basis of the total cost of the programme, so that the federal government's share of the total cost of the vaccination programme is 80%.As approved by the IMC Public Health in particular: the vaccines of Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca), Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Spikevax (Moderna) and Johnson&Johnson (Janssen Pharmaceutica) subject to approval by the EEA. 8° setting: type of place where a vaccination was carried out. The setting can take 2 forms: either a collectivity as defined in point 2°, or a vaccination centre as defined in point 6°. CHAPTER 3. - FINANCINGSMODEL Art. 3. Cost calculation method 3.1. For the calculation of the cost per vaccinated, the model of 90% vaccination of the 18 year olds and older according to the statistics of Statbel was taken from the cost calculation of the vaccination centres.The vaccination centres are estimated at EUR 53,44 per vaccinee. In addition, a margin of 10% is added to the total amount to EUR 58,78 per vaccinee. 4.4.1. Included in the cost: - Infrastructure and operating costs (rent, energy, cleaning, monitoring, IT etc.) - Materials (including refrigerators, medical materials, medical waste processing,...) - Medical vaccination teams (vaccinators, framing medical staff (apotheker, doctor,...), including mobile teams - Non-medical personnel costs (Management cost, administrative staff, reception, etc.) - Communication cost - Insurance - Transport cost for less mobile citizens 4.4.2. The cost of the communication is estimated at EUR 0,85 per vaccinee. 4.7. The development costs for the application of the vaccinee+ are excluded from the cost of additional expenditure for additional costs in place of an ex post re-evaluation. 4.5. The cost of vaccination in a collective facility is estimated at EUR 9,66 per vaccinee. 4.6. The cost of the communication is estimated at EUR 0,85 per vaccinee.On 30 November 2021 the number of persons vaccinated per Federated Entity registered in Vaccinenet+ shall be closed. It shall be the place of vaccination which shall determine which entity shall bear the costs. 7.1.1. there shall be an exception for the vaccinated persons vaccinated in a hospital.The balance shall be paid by 31 January 2022 after approval by the Federal Minister of Public Health. 7.3. If the balance is in favour of the federal government, the settlement in this case shall take the form of a deduction from the financial resources of the financial year 2022 which are transferred under the law to the federated entities. CHAPTER 5. - International donation mechanisms Art. 8 Subtracting from the vaccines already administered under Article 7.1 shall be the portion of the balance of the doses of vaccines provided for in the table below to the EU distribution mechanism and also cofinanced under the 80/20 ratio. 7.1.De la Santé, de la Culture, des Médias et des Droits des Femmes V. GLATIGNY, Ministere de l'Enseignement supérieur, de l'Enseignement de la Promotion sociale, des Hôpitaux universitaires, de l'Aide à la jeunesse, des Maisons de Justice, de la Jeunesse, des Sports et de la Promotion de Bruxelles Ch. MORREALE, Vice-Présidente du Gouvernement wallon, Ministry de l'Emploi, de la Formation, de la Santé, de l'Action sociale, de l'Egalité des chances et des Droits des femmes A. ANTONIADIS, Vize-Minister-Präsident, Minister für Gesundheit und Soziales, Raumordnung und Wohnungswesen A. MARON, Ministere du Gouvernement de la Région de la Région de la Cégécé, de la Encécécécé, de l'Encécécécécécécécécédé, de la Parlemente, de l'État, de l'Écécémonie, de l'Écé