Decision of the Brussels Capital Government implementing the Order of 6 March 2019 on the Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, Article 20; Having regard to the special law of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels Institutions, Article 8; Having regard to the decree of 6 March 2019 on the Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure, Articles 6, 8, 17, 22, 25, 31, 42, 51, 68, 69, 72, 80, 107, 109, 115, 118, 119, 120, 122, 123 and 145; Having regard to the equal opportunity test carried out in accordance with Article 2 of the Ordinance of 4 October 2018 on the introduction of the Equal Opportunities Test on 15 January 2019; Having regard to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, given on 18 March 2019; Having regard to the agreement of the Minister of the Budget of the Brussels Capital Region of 2 April 2019; Having regard to the opinion of the Council of State, given on 19 June 2019 on the application of Article 1, paragraph 1, to the first of the Council, to the opinion of the Council of 12 January 2019 on theThe Council of 27 April 2016 concerning the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC; whereas the legislation relating to such processing is directly contained in the provisions on the basis of the taxes laid down by the procedural rules of the Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure of 6 March 2019; whereas, therefore, there is no reason to request the opinion of the Data Protection Authority for the preparation of this Decision; whereas the organic decree of 23 February 2006 laying down the provisions applicable to the budget, accounting and control; On the proposal of the Minister for Finance and Budget, after deliberation, Decision: TITLE 1. - General provisions Article 1. This Decision is cited as: Decision of Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure or Article 2. In the context of the application of this Decision, the following provisions shall be understood as follows:Article 7. The various taxes, including the charges, shall be determined at each stage of the calculation in euro and rounded to the upper cent or to the lower cent depending on the thousandth of a euro, from the number five or not. Section 2. - The bill of lading Art. 8. § 1. When the taxable person expressly agrees with the procedure set out in Article 19, second paragraph of the Codex, his tax bill and any reminders shall be made available by means of the platform indicated by the regional tax administration. § 2. The taxable person who expressly agrees with the method set out in paragraph 1 shall be required to provide a personal e-mail address via the platform indicated by the regional tax administration. The e-mail address referred to in the first paragraph shall be used by the regional tax administration to send an information message indicating that a document referred to in Article 19 of the Codex is made available on the platform by the regional tax administration. § 3. After the date of revocation of the agreement or the date of death, the documents referred to in Article 19 of the Codex, pursuant to Article 1.(a) in a country with which Belgium has concluded an agreement on mutual assistance for the recovery of taxes to which the person concerned may be subject;Article 17. Dematerialised securities entered in a securities account with a liquidation institution or an authorized account holder who is authorized to keep such securities shall be blocked by the competent agent; in that regard an indication shall be given that such securities may not be disposed of or paid without the written consent of the competent agent. Article 18. The personal guarantee must be regarded as insufficient under Belgian law to enter into and be accepted by the competent agent. Article 19. If the business security or solvency of the personal guarantee is required for any cause such as loss of value of immovable property or public funds or trade-related reduction of the deposit of the guarantee, the taxpayer shall, at the first request of the competent agent, be required to provide a new business security or a new personal guarantee. Section 2.The competent agents shall be prohibited, directly or indirectly, from buying or making available for themselves, in accordance with the provisions of Article 27. If no other creditors have seized or objected, the gross proceeds of the sale shall be paid into the hands of the regional tax administration. However, the court doorkeeper shall first deduct the costs of prosecution due to him. If other creditors have seized or objected, the court doorkeeper shall carry out the proportionate distribution provided for in Articles 1627 to 1638 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Article 28. The regional tax administration shall charge the sums paid to him in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 36 of the Codex and shall refund to the taxable person any surplus in accordance with the provisions of Article 3.It is the same, irrespective of whether it is communicated by means of a procedure using computer techniques or by means of a registered letter; the origin and integrity of the content of the notification of the attachment referred to in the second paragraph shall, in the case of dispatch by means of a procedure involving the use of computer techniques, be ensured by means of appropriate security techniques; the notification of the attachment to third parties shall be subject to the use of a digital certificate, irrespective of the technique used, to ensure that only the entitled persons have access to the means by which the digital certificate is created; in addition, the procedures used must allow the natural person responsible for the transmission to be correctly identified and that the time of dispatch can be properly determined. § 3. The attachment to third parties shall also be notified by registered letter to the taxable person. If the taxable person no longer has a known place of residence, the declaration shall be made by registered letter to the defendant in Brussels.Where the attachment is made to third parties in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 1 of the second paragraph, the submission of a copy of the declaration of attachment shall be deemed to have been completed by means of the communication to the third party of the date of issue of the attachment to the universal postal service provider. In that case the notification shall also be made by means of a procedure for the use of computer techniques; 3° the issue of the amount of the attachment shall be carried out in the hands of the competent agent.For the purposes of Article 29 (3), second paragraph, or of the declaration provided for in Article 1452 of the Code of Civil Procedure; or the notification of receipt of that declaration by the taxable person if it was sent by means of a procedure involving computer techniques as provided for in Article 29 (5) of the Code of Civil Procedure.Such advance, for which an advantage in respect of economic expansion has been applied for, shall in principle be granted by the credit institutions and establishments, as well as by the administrations, public institutions or organizations which grant grants in respect of an amount exceeding EUR 2,000 referred to in Article 68 of the Codex, in respect of which, in principle, only one certificate is held. However, the date of the award of that certificate may not be earlier than one month before the date of the application for the benefit, nor later than that date. However, a new certificate must be submitted where the decision to grant the benefit has not been taken within six months of the date of the certificate.The minutes shall be signed, after reading, by the competent agent and the agent. Their signature shall be preceded by the handwritten statement: 'Learned and approved'. If the person concerned refuses to sign, they shall be reported in the minutes specifying the reasons for refusal. A certified copy of the minutes shall be notified to the agent within eight days of that date. Section 2. - Administrative penalties Art. 42. The person to whom an administrative fine has been imposed in application of Title 2, Chapter 6, Section 2 of the Codex may in writing submit his comments in accordance with the procedure of the prejudicious profession referred to in Article 101 of the Codex. Within 30 days of receipt of the application by the regional tax administration, the person concerned may, if the person so wishes, by means of his representative or with the assistance of the chosen person, be requested to be heard.In the event of a dispute concerning the determination, collection or recovery of the municipal decrees before a judicial authority, the regional tax administration shall inform the municipality thereof. The regional tax administration shall transmit to the municipality a copy of all the documents of the judicial authorities. Article 45. § 1. If the municipal authority has one of its regulations referred to in Article 107 (2), first paragraph, 3°, of the Codex, withdraws or, in general, in the event of the adoption by the municipality of any act which may affect the service of the municipal decrees, the municipality shall communicate this notification to the regional tax administration. § 2. The notification referred to above, by registered letter to the director of the regional tax administration, of the decree referred to in the first paragraph.The agreement protocol shall be signed, as regards the municipality, by the competent body pursuant to the new municipal law of 24 June 1988 and, as regards the regional tax administration, by the Minister and by the Director-General of the regional tax administration. § 3. Once the agreement protocol has been concluded in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2, the municipality shall inform the regional tax administration of its decision to transfer the service of the municipal tax to the regional tax administration, which shall be made by registered letter to the director-general of the regional tax administration.This notification shall be made within 10 working days of the date on which the decision to withdraw or to take the act referred to in the first paragraph were adopted.In accordance with Article 118 (1), fourth paragraph of the Codex Code, the amounts payable to the municipalities may be reduced in accordance with Title 2, Chapter 4 of this Decision, as well as in Section 3 of Title 5 of Title 2 of the Codex Code.§ 5, first paragraph of the Codex, is notified by registered letter to the municipal council of the municipality concerned. The decision of the municipal council to terminate the acquisition, by the regional tax administration, of the compulsory recovery of the amounts due to the municipality as referred to in Article 118, paragraph 6, first paragraph of the Codex, shall be notified by the municipality. This decision shall be notified by registered letter to the Minister as well as to the director-general of the regional tax administration. TITLE 4. - Operation of the regional tax administration CHAPTER 1. - Mutual assistance between Member States in recovery Art. 53. § 1. No administrative penalty may be imposed by application of Article 119, § 3 of the Codex when the person concerned is found to have his right of transgression and does not take part in self-incrimination shall be invoked by reason of Article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome on 4 November 1950. § 2.CHAPTER 2. - Electronic management Art. 54. The addressee of the documents on the basis of the regional tax administration may choose to receive these documents only by means of a platform designated by the regional tax administration. This choice must be communicated via the platform designated by the regional tax administration. The consignee may, at any time, withdraw or request this declaration for the use of new contact details. However, this withdrawal or such request is only contrary to the regional tax administration from the 30th day following the date of receipt of the certificate from the regional tax administration. Art. 55. The electronic file management referred to in Article 121 of the Codex shall be carried out via the computer applications implemented in the regional tax administration. The security of registration, the re-use and the transmission of personal data obtained by the regional tax administration in accordance with the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons in connection with the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repeal of Directive 95/46/EC.Article 37, Chapter 4 of Title 2 and Chapter 6 of Title 2 and Title 4 shall have effect as from 19 March 2019. By way of derogation from the preceding paragraphs, Article 10 shall enter into force on the day of publication in the Belgian Official Journal of this Decision. Brussels, 24 June 2021. For the Brussels Capital Government: The Prime Minister, R. PROVIDES The Minister of Finance, S. GATZ