Royal Decree declaring the collective agreement of 14 April 2020 concluded in the Joint Sub-Committee for the air carriers, in accordance with the rules of full suspension of the implementation of the contract of employment and/or a scheme of partial employment in the absence of work due to force majeure for the sake of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) (1) FILIP, King of the Belgians, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. Having regard to the law of 5 December 1968 concerning collective agreements and joint committees, in particular Article 28 thereof; having regard to the request of the Joint Sub-Committee for the air carriers, to the proposal of the Minister for Work, Haven We decided and decide: Article 1. Generally binding is declared the collective agreement of 14 April 2020, concluded in the Joint Sub-Committee for the air carriers, on a settlement of the implementation of the agreement and/or a scheme of partial labour in the absence of work for reasons of force of the Coronavirus (COVID-19).The purpose of the application of these measures is to prevent dismissals as far as possible as a result of the economic impact of the Coronavirus. If, despite these efforts, the undertaking is forced to carry out multiple redundancies, the procedures for applying them are applicable. Procedure Art. 5. In the absence of work for workers on grounds of force majeure due to the Coronavirus, the execution of the employment agreement of the servant may be suspended altogether or a scheme of partial employment per week may be introduced. Article. 6. When the undertaking applies this collective agreement, the duration of the full or partial suspension of the employment agreement for the sake of the Coronavirus shall not exceed the maximum duration of the period of the Corona crisis measures provided for by the Federal Government.However, in the event of a lack of work due to force majeure for the sake of the Coronavirus, the undertaking without a works council, syndicated delegation or committee for prevention and protection at work when introducing the measure must inform the chairman of the joint committee: 1. the economic and financial situation which requires the undertaking to introduce this scheme; 2. the effect of the introduction of the scheme on the undertaking and on the situation of the employees; 3. the practical application of the scheme; 3. the chairman of the joint committee shall in turn inform the spokesperson of the organizations represented in the joint committee. § 2. the communication to the chairman of the joint committee concerning the status of the trade union d.d. 24 October 1975 shall be made prior to the notification to the unemployment office of the State Employment Service (RVA).Article 10 (1) and (2) of this collective agreement, for a maximum period of two months. The specific terms of these refunds to employers, which may never exceed 50 p.c. of the balance on the basis of the balance on the basis of the balance on the basis of the balance on the basis of the balance on the basis of the risk groups, shall be determined further by the board of directors of the social fund Art. 11. § 1.Minutes of the meeting signed and approved by the members. Seen to be attached to the Royal Decree of 16 July 2020. The Minister of Work, N. MUYLLE