On the basis of Article 28 (3) of the Convention signed on 5 June 2001 between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Kingdom of Belgium on the avoidance of double taxation and on the avoidance of tax on income and capital, as amended by the Protocol signed on 23 June 2009 (the "Treaty'), the competent authorities of the Netherlands and Belgium have failed to resolve difficulties or doubts which may arise in relation to the interpretation or application of the Convention by mutual agreement between the competent authorities of the Netherlands and Belgium on the grounds that the agreement referred to in Article 28 (3) of the Treaty is a case of force majeure and that the measures taken in response to the pandemic may give rise to great uncertainty as to the tax situation of frontier workers, the competent authorities of the Netherlands and Belgium share the view that an agreement by mutual agreement referred to in Article 28 (3) of the Treaty is justified.This fiction can be applied only to the extent that the remuneration for the days spent at home is actually taxed by the Contracting State in which the frontier worker would have exercised the employment without the measures taken to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic. The frontier worker accordingly agrees that these income components are actually taxed in the Contracting State where he would have exercised the employment without the measures taken to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic. These income components are considered to be "actually taxed" when they are included in the tax base used to calculate the tax. 3. Staying without working with a salary It is understood that for Article 15 of the Treaty the same working pattern (the relationship of days worked in the working state/total working days) is applied as if the worker would have worked as: -the worker would have worked one or more working days, would have been home without working; and - the employee still receives salary from the employer (the employer's employer's employer's)This Agreement shall enter into force on the day following that on which it is signed by the competent authorities of the Netherlands and Belgium. It may be terminated unilaterally by each competent authority by notifying the other competent authority. This Agreement between the competent authorities and the extensions of the period of application of this Agreement will be published in the Belgian Official Journal and in the Dutch Official Journal. Agreement agreed by the undersigned competent authorities on 30 April 2020: For the competent authority of Belgium: P. De Vos Advisor General For the competent authority of the Netherlands: R. Janssen Acting Director International Affairs and Consumer Taxes _________Note (1) Points 2.6 and 2.16 of the OECD commentary to Article 15 of the OECD Model Convention as it stands at the time of conclusion of this Agreement.