For the purpose of determining a model of certificate No 281.77 which allows the required proof of the tax reduction for the acquisition of new shares of companies which have seen their turnover fall sharply as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic (the tax reduction tax Shelter "COVID-19") I. GENERAL In order to support the SME companies which have seen their turnover fall sharply as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic and therefore need additional financial resources, the government has taken a measure to encourage taxpayers to subscribe to capital increases of such companies. It is a temporary measure (capital increases until 31 December 2020). This new tax reduction is regulated by Article 15 of the FISCONETLUS database (www.fisconet.be). General tax provisions relating to the COOVID-19 pandemic (CORONA III) (BS 23.07.2020). For more information on the conditions to be respected, one can be consulted by the FOD Finance on the Fisconetbus database (www.fisconetpus).for the year for which a partial withdrawal of the tax reduction is to be made II.1. The certificate to be drawn up for the year of acquisition of the shares of the company and to be delivered to the tenderer shall not, on the basis of the following: - confirm that the company in which the investment is made meets the conditions laid down in Article 15 (1) and (2) of the Law of 15.07.2020 laying down various urgent tax provisions as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic (CORONA III, BS 23.07.2020). It concerns 11 conditions specific to the company, for example with regard to the reduction in turnover or the nature of its activity, as well as the following conditions: (a) the investment must relate to new shares; (b) in the name of the company; (c) acquired by means of 11 conditions inherent to the company; (e) the transfer is excluded from being made directly to the company as a capital contribution as referred to in Article 7:8 of the Code of companies and associations;The calculation of that 30% share must be made on the basis of the number of shares representing the capital and in function of the situation after the capital increase. Example: Company set up in 2014 with 20,000 euro capital consisting of 20 shares in 1.000 euro: - 10,000 euro = 10 shares in the holding of A (representing 50 %) - 2.000 euro = 2 shares in the holding of B (representing 10 %) - 8.000 euro = 8 shares in the holding of C, manager (representing 40 %). Capital increase in October 2020 under the tax Shelter COVID-19. Issue of 80 additional shares in 1.000 euro: - A applies to 30 additional shares (30,000 euro): the maximum amount of 40 % after the capital increase - B applies to 43 additional shares (43.000 euro): the amount of 45 % after the capital increase - C (trader) amounts to 7 additional shares (7,000 euro): representing 15% of 15% after the capital increase.In the event that the debtor has transferred the shares during the taxable period, no certificate may be drawn up and the tax reduction may not be granted. II.2. The certificate shall not, for each of the following five years, confirm that he has acquired the shares of a company which are directly or indirectly financed by a claim against that company or by a debt to that company or, for such amounts, a certificate cannot be drawn up. 3. The payments for the shares in question, made between 14 March and 31 December 2020, are eligible for the tax reduction to an amount of EUR 100,000 per person. For example, a manager invests within the framework of the tax Shelter COVID-19 120,000 euro in his company.The amount of the shares received in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the stock in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares in the form of shares inFor the year 2021, it is not required to fill in the part relating to the partial transfer of shares (see model attestation below) to the certificate of type 3 the part relating to the partial transfer of shares (see section 3.2 of the model attestation below). For the years 2023 to 2025, the company must complete a certificate of type 2 each year, by filling in only the part relating to the partial transfer of shares. In the event of the tenderer's death, the company shall no longer draw up a certificate from the taxable period in which the taxpayer has died. II.3. The certificate for the year in which a partial reduction of the tax is to take place when certain conditions are not respected during a period of 60 months, a tax increase shall be applied.2,000 euros. Transfer of the shares at 04.10.02. Number of full months remaining (to be indicated on the certificate): 34. Transfer of the shares to the company on the basis of the transfer of the shares to the company on the basis of the declaration of bankruptcy of the company in which the investment was made must also be understood as excluding the closure of the liquidation of the company in which the company was invested from the taxable period following the closure of the liquidation as a result of the declaration of bankruptcy. Partial transfer of the shares If the tenderer transfers part of the shares within 60 months of their acquisition, the company must also indicate the part relating to the partial transfer of the shares of type 2 as described in Title II.2 above, since the number of shares transferred - the number of full months that were not cancelled from the company on the date of disposal until the end of the 60 months. The company must also indicate the part relating to the transfer of the shares in the form of type 2 as described above, since the other shares were retained (see model test).For more information on all the conditions to be met by the companies in question, see the Circular 2020/C/140 of 16.11.2020 of 16.11.2020 of the tax relief tax Shelter.COVID-19.0 for companies which have seen their turnover fall sharply, published by the FOD Finance on the Fisconetplus (www.fisconetplus.be) database. The contact centre of the FOD Finance can also answer any general question on this subject at 02 572 57 57 (normal rate). Number of full months to be indicated on the attestation: 30. III. TIME FOR THE SETTLING OF THE DOCUMENTS The company must provide the aforementioned certificates to the tenderer before 31 March of the year following the purchase of the fully paid shares and of the following five years. The company must send a copy by electronic means to the administration (see below). Example: investment in new shares of a company which has seen its turnover fall sharply. The shares are acquired following a capital increase carried out on 1 September 2020.Finances.belgium.be/en/E-services/Belcotaxonweb. A validation program is integrated into the web application. There is also a non-integrated offline validation module that can be downloaded from the website www.belcotaxonweb.be under the heading "Technical documentation'. The data entered by electronic means can be consulted, modified or deleted via the internet. The procedure for entering the data via the screen is explained on the website www.belcotaxonweb.be under the heading "How to use BOW'. There is also a brochure "Belcotax on web' containing the technical description of the files. This document can be downloaded from the website www.belcotaxonweb.be under the heading "Technical documentation'. These attestations can also be sent by e-mail to the following service: SME Centrum Specific Materies - Team management company prepayment MEM.v.bru2.prp@fin.fed.be V.crit.