Decision of the Flemish Government granting compensation to potato growers in respect of an unsaleable stock of free potatoes in its own ownership following the outbreak of COVID-19 Legal grounds This decision is based on: - the Decree of 28 June 2013 on the agricultural and fisheries policy, Article 9, first paragraph, 5°. Formal requirements The following formal requirements are fulfilled: - The Flemish Minister, responsible for the budget, has given his agreement on 6 July 2020; - No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, applying Article 3 (1) of the Laws on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973. There is an urgent need because the potato growers, as a result of the COVID-19 crisis with a large unsaleable stock of their own preservatives, remain in place in the Council of State. This situation has great financial consequences and calls for an immediate intervention to ensure the liquidity of the potato growers. Legal framework This decision is consistent with the following rules: - the temporary framework for State aid to support the economy due to the current COVID-19-I/01. This decision is proposed by the Flemish Minister of Economics, in accordance with Article 1.In accordance with Article 11 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 640/2014 of 11 March 2014 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated management and control system and the conditions for refusal or withdrawal of payments and for administrative penalties in respect of direct payments, rural development assistance and cross-compliance; 6° free potatoes: uncontracted storage potatoes. Article 2. The aid measure provided for in this Decision shall be granted, subject to the agreement of the European Commission in accordance with the conditions set out in the Temporary Framework on State aid to support the economy due to the current COVID-19 outbreak (2020/C 91 I/01), and shall, in particular, satisfy the following conditions: 1° the aid may not be combined with other aid and shall therefore be granted in accordance with point 2, 20 of the framework referred to in the first paragraph; 2° undertakings to which are exempt from recovery under an earlier Commission decision in which aid is not eligible for aid;The free potatoes in private ownership used by the farmer in the period from 12 March to 15 May 2020 to feed his own livestock are included in the stock; 5° the farmer may not plow the free potatoes in his own ownership on the field. Art. 4. § 1. The fee referred to in Article 3 shall not exceed EUR 50 per tonne of free potatoes in stock on 15 May 2020. The free potatoes in his own ownership used by the farmer in order to feed his own livestock in the period from 13 March to 15 May 2020 shall also be eligible for reimbursement on the basis of the available budget appropriations and the total amount of the compensation granted to him in his own ownership shall not be eligible for reimbursement. The fee shall be limited to 20 tonnes of preserved potatoes per hectare indicated in the first year 2019 and to 400 tonnes of free potatoes in his own ownership. § 3. The competent entity shall also determine the amount of the allowance on the basis of the amount of the fees available for all allowances granted in accordance with Article 2.The farmer shall, at the request of the competent entity, submit to the Commission the following documents: 1° the accounting documents; 2° a stock determination document drawn up not later than 30 June 2020; 3° the scales; 4° the administrative data; 5° any photographic material; The beneficiary farmer shall keep the documents listed in paragraph 2 for at least 10 years after the payment. The competent entity shall check that the farmer fulfils the conditions set out in Article 3 and shall have the power to verify the accuracy of the stock reported by the farmer on 15 May 2020 on the basis of all possible documents, weighing certificates, administrative information, on-the-spot checks, the accounting and photo-materials of the farmer. In the following cases, the aid shall be refused and the competent entity shall recover the subsidies already paid for the purposes of the checks and accounts: 1° if the competent entity finds that the conditions laid down in the Decree of 28 June 2013 relating to the agricultural and fisheries policy, this decision or its implementing decisions; 2° in the cases referred to in Article 13 and 14 of the Law of 16 May 2003 to the general provisions applicable to the budget and to the accounts of the organizations referred to in Article 3 of this Regulation which are not satisfied by theITS