The special power decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/050 amending the special power decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/010 of 30 April 2020 concerning a delegated mission to the Regional Investment Company for Brussels (GIMB) for the granting of loans to certain undertakings in the hospitality sector or for its supply to certain undertakings in the hospitality sector due to the COVID-19 health crisis Report to the Government On 30 April 2020, the Government entrusted a delegated mandate to the Regional Investment Company for Brussels (GIMB) to grant credits at moderate interest rates to certain undertakings in the hospitality sector or its subcontractors, in the context of the health crisis caused by COOVID-19. In view of the continuation of the crisis, it is necessary to extend the delegated mandate to all sectors, in addition to the catering sector, to fix a minimum amount for the loans; this extension of the aid does not require any additional financial resources for the purposes of the scheme under Article 1 of Article 2.On the basis of a loan scheme for undertakings with less than 10 FTEs set up by Brusoc and which will offer loans of up to 100,000 euros. Other aid schemes, such as premiums, are also particularly suitable for small enterprises. - The operating costs granted to the GIMB represent only 1.25% of the budget provided for the loans. They are below the market standard. In this context, staff time must necessarily be optimised. Article 7 of the draft decision extends the duration of the aid measure. The loans can be applied for until 31 December 2021 and may be granted at the latest on 28 February 2022. Article 8 of the draft decision gives the Government the power, by simple decision, to modify certain parameters of the measure. The experience with previous aid measures has shown that it is of great importance that the Government, even after the expiry of the special powers, retains its flexibility in order to adapt these measures.The Council of State (in paragraph 8) took note of a proposal to supplement the transitional provision.In the present case, the request for urgent treatment is justified as follows: "La crise sanitaire du COVID-19 a un impact significatif sur l'activité économique de nombreuses entreprises à la fois directement et indirectment, du fait des mesures sanitaires imposées. Il est et reste donc nécessaire de répondre rapidement aux besoins des entreprises concernées, afin de les protéger au maximum des conséquencies financières de la crise. Parmi un large éventail de mesures d'aide, il apparaît nécessaire d'étendre l'octroi de crédits aux entreprises buxelloises au-delà du secteur HORECA et de prolonger la mesure, qui a été mise en ouvre à à à la més à la méss à la més à més à més à més més à la més més à més à més més de més de més més de més de més.Article 3 (1) of the aforementioned Order shall also be confirmed within a period of six months from the end of the period of special powers governed by the Act of Accession.Nevertheless, the determination of the level of that amount may not be arbitrary, but may be considered to be justified in accordance with the principle of equality laid down by law. The latter implies that there should be a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the funds used and the objective pursued. The introduction of a minimum amount of EUR 75 000 may be considered to be justified in a reasonable manner by the single reference to the risk that the GIMB would be inundated by applications, while the objective of the measure should be precisely to offset the socio-economic consequences of the COOVID-19 pandemic. The stencilers of the draft will be able to choose a minimum amount of EUR 75 000 on another, more closely geared to the principle of equality, cannot be deduced from that the Brussels Government itself and in the exercise of its powers in accordance with Article 8 (7).Judicieux, par souci de sécurité et de prévisibilité juridique, de ne pas leur aplicer le nouveau montant plancher. Les autres nouvelles conditions ne restreignent pas leurs droits. Par conséquent, nous pourrions ajouter à l'article 9 un 3e alinéa rédigé comme suit:............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Having regard to the special power decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/010 of 30 April 2020 concerning a delegated mission to the Brussels Regional Investment Company (GIMB) for the granting of loans to certain undertakings in the hospitality sector or for its subcontracting due to the COVID-19 health crisis, as amended by the special power decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/046 of 18 June 2020; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget, given on 4 December 2020; having regard to the request for urgency, motivated by the continuing health crisis, which has a direct and indirect impact on the economic activity of many undertakings; having regard to the opinion of the Treasury given on 24 November 2020; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Finance, given on 4 December 2020; having regard to the request for urgency, motivated by the continuous health crisis, which has a sensitive impact both directly and indirectly through the imposed security measures,(GIMB) for the granting of loans to certain undertakings in the hospitality sector or for its subcontracting because of the COVID-19 health crisis, shall be replaced by the following: "Special Powers Decision of the Brussels Capital Government No 2020/010 concerning a delegated mission to the Regional Investment Company for Brussels (GIMB) for the granting of credits to Brussels companies and suppliers of the hospitality sector in the same way as the COVID-19 health crisis." Article 2. In Article 1 of the same Decision, the provision is inserted under point 6°/1 of the same Decision: "6°/1 Brussels undertaking: an undertaking which has at least one establishment unit in the region, has an economic activity and has human resources and goods specific to it;" Article 3 (1) of the same Decision shall be replaced by the words "undertakings in the catering sector or for the supply of this sector" shall be replaced by the words "to Brussels undertakings and suppliers of the catering sector" Article 4.2° the amount thresholds and ceilings referred to in Article 6, second and third paragraphs; 3° the number of persons employed referred to in Article 7 (2), first paragraph, 1°; 4° the calendar of the delegated contract referred to in Article 12.' Article 9. The loans granted before the entry into force of this Decision shall remain valid for an amount of less than EUR 75 000. The beneficiaries of loans granted before the entry into force of this Decision may request the GIMB to examine the possibility of extending the repayment period without exceeding seven years. The loan applications submitted by Brussels catering companies or suppliers of the catering sector on which a decision has not been taken at the time of entry into force of this Decision shall be dealt with on the basis of the decision as amended by this Decision, provided that the loan may be less than EUR 75,000. This decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Art. 11. The Minister of Economy shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Brussels, 23 December 2020.