Royal Decree declaring the collective agreement of 19 March 2020 concluded by the Joint Committee on Transport and Logistics on the supplementary unemployment allowance granted by the Social Fund to taxi companies and services for the rental of vehicles with driver - Temporary extension to motive "overpower coronavirus" and temporary increase amount, as a result of the outbreak of the CORONAVIRUS COVID-19 (1) FILIP, King of Belgians, to all who are now and will be listed below, Our Greet. In accordance with the law of 5 December 1968 concerning collective agreements and joint committees, in particular Article 28; Having regard to the request of the Joint Committee on Transport and Logistics, to the proposal of the Minister of Work, Hebben We decide and decide that: Article 1. The collective agreement of 19 March 2020, which is annexed to be concluded by the Joint Committee on Transport and Logistics, concerning the additional unemployment allowance granted by the Social Fund for the rental of vehicles with driver, shall be binding on the basis of Article 1.With the exception of taxi transport and regular services, the following shall mean the carriage of passengers carried out on behalf of the VVM and the SRWT-TEC, irrespective of the capacity of the vehicle and of the type of propulsion of the means of transport used. This transport shall be carried out in accordance with the following criteria: a specific route and a defined, regular timetable. Passengers shall be picked up and deported to pre-established stops. This transport shall be accessible to all, even if, where appropriate, it is compulsory to reserve the journey in advance. § 3. The term "workers" shall mean the workers and workers, indicated in the RSZ category 068.In accordance with Article 17 of the above-mentioned collective agreement, employers may obtain reimbursement of this benefit directly from their employees per month and with the first wage payment following the month during which they are entitled to this benefit. § 5. Explanation of the amounts per period (year 2020): 1. From 1 January to 31 March, temporary unemployment for economic reasons or for force majeure (corona) entitles them to an additional unemployment allowance of EUR 3.00 per day; 2. From 1 April to 30 June, temporary unemployment for economic reasons or for reasons of force majeure (corona) gives entitlement to an additional unemployment allowance of EUR 5.00 per day; 3. Once the maximum of EUR 150.00 is reached, the employer must no longer pay the supplementary unemployment benefit. 4. If the maximum is not reached on 30 June, the employer then pays an additional unemployment allowance of EUR 3.00 per day, without exceeding the ceiling of EUR 150."