Decision of the Brussels Capital Government implementing Articles 69 to 71 of the Order of 6 March 2019 concerning the Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the Order of 6 March 2019 concerning the Brussels Codex Fiscal Procedure, Articles 69, § 3, 70, second paragraph, and 71, § 4, as amended by the Order of 17 December 2019; Having regard to the Equal Opportunities Test carried out on 8 January 2020 pursuant to Article 2 of the Ordinance of 4 October 2018 establishing the Equal Opportunities Test; Having regard to the Opinion of the Data Protection Authority, issued on 13 March 2020; Having regard to the Opinion of the Council of State, given on 4 March 2020, adopted on 4 March 2020, applying Article 84, § 1, paragraph 2°, of the Laws on the State, coordinated on 12 January 1973; Considering the Opinion No 005/2019 of the Brussels Audit Board, given on 14 June 2019; On the proposal of the Minister in charge of Finance, Decision: Article 1.In the absence of the accounting officer responsible for tax matters, the power referred to in paragraph 1 shall be exercised by the Deputy accounting officer responsible for tax matters. Article 3. - The transmission of the message shall be effected in accordance with point 1°. If the communication is sent in accordance with point 1°, the date of dispatch of the notice shall be understood as the date of receipt of the notice. § 2. If the notice is sent in a registered letter, this information shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of the same message by means of a computer technique used in relation to the date of dispatch of the communication by registered letter. § 3. The date of receipt of the message shall be understood as the following information:The notification shall be made in one of the following ways: 1° by means of a procedure using informatics techniques; or 2° by means of a registered letter. If the notification has been made in accordance with point 1°, the date of dispatch of that notification shall mean the date of the functional notification of the notification. § 2. If the same notification is sent by registered letter, the notification shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of such notification by means of a procedure using computer techniques when the date of the informatics transmission differs from the date of the transmission by registered letter. § 3. The notification referred to in Article 69 of the order number shall contain the following information: 1° Data from the sender and the consignee; 2° Reference procedure shall not be used; 3° Referenced file; 4° Indication of the debtor/taxer: (a) If it is a natural person referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such an identification number, the name and the full address of the place of residence;(b) if the information is sent by registered letter, this information shall be decisive in relation to the transmission of the same information by means of a procedure involving the use of computer techniques when the date of transmission of the information differs from the date of dispatch by registered letter. § 3. The information shall contain the following information: 1° Details of the sender and the consignee; 2° Reference procedure; 3° Reference file; 4° Nature of the document from which the sums and values held by the notary shall result: alienation, mortgage or mortgage payment upon acquisition; 5° Date of the instrument from which the sums and values held by the notary arise; 6° Indication of the alienator/hypotheistor: (a) if the natural person concerned is the identification number referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such identification number, first names and full address of the place of residence;(c) the name, legal form and full address of the registered office; (c) the amount held by the notary; 10° with regard to the registered creditors: (a) the total amount of the sums due to the registered creditors: (b) the registered creditors - in the case of a natural person: the identification number referred to in Article 7 or, in the absence of such identification number, the name and first names and full address of the place of residence; (d) the amount of the registration in euro; (a) the total amount of the amount due to the opposition and attachment creditor: (b) the name, legal form and full address of the registered office; (c) the date of registration; and (d) the amount of the registration in euro; 11° with respect to theRegulation (EU) No 910/2014 of 23 July 2014 concerning electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. The technique used shall not be determined by GOBF, after consultation with the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notariat. Those data shall be kept by the sender for a period of 10 years and shall be submitted in case of dispute within a reasonable period of time. Article 7. - Identification of persons involved in the transmission of message, information and notification In the context of the transmission of the messages, information and notifications, the persons concerned shall be identified in the following manner: - in the case of a legal person, using the identification number referred to in Article III.17 of the Code of Economic Law; - in the case of a natural person, using the identification number in the national register or in the implementation of Article 4 (2) of the Law of 15 January 1990 establishing and organising a crosspoint bank of data of the social security, assigned identification number in the bisregister, and, where appropriate, by means of the identification number referred to in Article III.17 of the Code of Economic Law and Article 8.The information contained in the notices, notifications and information shall be the same regardless of whether they are communicated by means of a procedure involving the use of computer techniques or by registered letter. Article 11. - Limitation of the scope This Decision shall apply only to notaries. Its provisions shall not apply to persons referred to in Article 75 (1) of the Order. Article 12. - Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force at the time of the entry into force of Articles 69 to 71, 74 and 75 of the Order. Art 13. - Implementation The Minister responsible for Finance shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Brussels, 26 March 2020.