The decree amending Article 47/15 of the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health and introducing Article 47/15a to take the measures relating to the health crisis in connection with COVID-19; (1) The Walloon Parliament has adopted and We, Walloon Government, confirm the following: CHAPTER I. - General provisions Article 1. This decree governs, in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution, matters referred to in Article 128 (1) thereof. Article 2. In this decree, the use of male names is common. CHAPTER II. - Changes in the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health Art. 3. In Article 47/15, Paragraph 1 of the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health, the following amendments are made: (a) between the first and second paragraph, a new member shall be inserted as follows: "When the doctor or nurse of the Agency intervenes with the infectious diseases which may be approached individually or familially, he shall cooperate with the patient to whom the declaration relates.'(h) point 6° of the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: '6° if necessary, to order the isolation of the infected persons or of the persons who may have contracted such infection, for a period which does not exceed the risk of infection, which, in accordance with the circumstances, is adopted as follows: (a) in a hospital service relevant to the state of health and which is identified by the decision of isolation to be taken by the Agency's doctor responsible for supervising infectious diseases after consultation with the hospital concerned; (b) at home; (c) in another place suitable for this purpose; (i) the second paragraph shall be supplemented by an 11°, which shall read as follows: '11° to organize the performance of their duties with the local general practitioner, the local administrative authorities or the doctor designated by the community as a reference person in the case of a collective condition';The orders and powers of the doctors and nurses referred to in Article 47/15 shall apply to the measures referred to in this Article. § 5. Without prejudice to the application of the penalties provided for by the Criminal Code shall be punished with a fine of 1 to 500 euros and with a imprisonment of eight days to six months, or with only one of the two sentences, the persons who do not comply with the provisions of this Article." CHAPTER III. - Final provisions Art. 5. This decree shall take effect on 16 July 2020. Announce this decree, which shall be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Names, 16 July 2020. The Minister-President, E. DI RUPO The Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs, Foreign Trade, Research, Innovation, Digital Technologies, Spatial Planning, Agriculture, the "IFAPME" and the Skills Centre, W. BORSUS The Vice-Minister-President and Minister of Climate, Ph.