Decision of the Brussels Capital Government to grant a grant of EUR 900,000 to the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs in order to promote the soft mobility of their staff for the year 2021 The Brussels Capital Government, having regard to the organic order of 23 February 2006 laying down the provisions applicable to the budget, accounts and control; Having regard to the order of 18 December 2020 laying down the general budget of the Brussels Capital Region for the financial year 2021; Having regard to the decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 22 July 2019 determining the distribution of powers between the Ministers of the Brussels Capital Government; Having regard to the Decision of the Brussels Capital Government of 2 June 2016 approving the Regional Air-Climate Energy Plan; Having regard to the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate of 7 November 2021, having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget 26 November 2021,For the purposes of applying the provisions of Chapter XII of the Law of 8 July 1976 concerning the public welfare centres of which the board of directors is composed of representatives of the public hospitals and public hospitals of the municipalities and OCMW's, for the purposes of movements carried out by them on foot or by bicycle and for the reimbursement of the cost of the purchase of STIB subscriptions by the municipalities and OCMW's and at the same time their staff are entitled to carry out their shifts of service. Only the STIB and BRUPAS subscriptions are eligible for the reimbursement of regional funds.For the purposes of applying the principle of proportionality, Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 must be interpreted as meaning that the conditions laid down in Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 must be met.The beneficiary shall use only the amount of the debt transferred to him by the administration.The document must be dated and signed by a person authorized to bind the beneficiary.The letter of notification of the amount awarded will be forwarded in one consignment with the claim in PDF format.In the event of production or modification of bank data, a written statement from the beneficiary must be sent separately to the following address: Master Data - Brussels Finance and Budget - Iris Tower - Saint-Lazarusplein 2, 22nd floor, 1035 Brussels. § 3.The accounting documents shall consist of: - The municipalities and the OCMWs shall provide the administrative service managing the grant with a summary list of the tax sheets drawn up by the STIVB via the Business Portal of the STIVB (period beginning on 1 December 2020 and ending on 30 November 2021).The file for the administration must contain the incomplete information, without any modification.In order to enable the accounting documents to be easily analyzed also a digital version (Excel file) of the MIVB's summary list drawn up by the STIVB.In addition, an extract from the salary list must be provided by the municipality recipient or the financial director of the OCMW, depending on the case. In order to facilitate the analysis of the accounts, it should be possible for the accounting documents to be more easily analysed to include also a digital version (Excel file) of the tables. In addition, an extract from the salary list, which clearly shows that the amount of the flat-rate discount is the mileage travelled between 1 January and 31 December 2021 of the year of the subsidised service.Article 10. This decision shall have effect from 1 January 2021. The beneficiary shall, from the date of receipt of the letter from the authorising officer, be required to submit his arguments if he does not agree with the proposed amounts. The authorising officer responsible shall take the final decision after analysis of the funds set out by the beneficiary. Article 7. The beneficiary municipalities shall be required to take the share of the grant due to the OCMW. Article 8. The Minister for Local Authorities may request the beneficiary any additional information necessary for the processing of the file and may take any appropriate steps to obtain it on the spot. Art. 9. The Executive Board of the Regional Authorities of Brussels shall be designated as the administrative department responsible for the administration of the appropriations granted by this Decision.