Having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Justice, delivered on 25 February 2020 and 5 January 2021; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Civil Service, dated 6 December 2019 and 19 December 2020; having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Finance, dated 11 October 2019; having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Justice, dated 11 October 2019; having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Justice, given the opinion of the Minister of Justice, given on 25 February 2020 and 5 January 2021; having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Civil Service, dated 6 December 2019 and 19 December 2020; having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Finance, dated 6 December 2020;In Article 2 of the same Decision, the words "the Director-General of Customs and Excise" shall be replaced by the words "the Administrator-General of Customs and Excise" shall be replaced by the words "the Director-General of Customs and Excise" in Article 4 of the same Decision. In Article 5 of the same Decision, the words "the Director-General of Customs and Excise" shall be replaced by the words "the Director-General of Customs and Excise" in Article 8 of the same Decision. In Article 7 of the same Decision, Article 3 of the Ministerial Decision of 29 June 1999, the words "the Secretary-General" shall be replaced by the words "the Director-General of Customs and Excise" in Article 8 of the same Decision.The minimum for this test is 70%. 2. The theoretical training gives access to the practical training. In the event of failure to apply for the theoretical test, one rematch is allowed. In the case of non-beating of the rematch, access to the practical training is denied. In the case of failure to apply for an armed function. II. Practical training for armed personnel 3. The practical basic training on arms control takes a total of 3 days including a practical test. The minimum result for this test is 80%. The content of the training is laid down in the appropriate training sheet. The practical test consists of three parts: shooting, manipulation of the weapon and the knowledge on safety rules. The test is described in a test sheet. Upon success, the armed official receives a qualification certificate. Every year this qualification test will be completed. In the failure of the test is a rematch of the test.The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, V. VAN PETEGHEM Annex 2 to the Ministerial Decision of 24/02/2021 amending the Ministerial Decision of 4 November 1992 on arms belonging to the regulatory equipment of the officials of the General Administration of Customs and Excise and on the special provisions relating to the holding, storage and carrying of such weapons. I. Orders and services for which the service weapons are to be carried. 1. Full arms handling is required only for missions of the mobile entities of the administration Operations and, more particularly, during the following missions: - Control on the public road and on the train; - The teams of staff of the administration Investigation; - The rummage team, the port brigade, the maritime brigade; - The teams of dogs in the ports and airports;