The Government has already taken numerous important measures to avoid this social crisis, by supporting the self-employed, the employees and the SMEs. However, there are vulnerable groups which are particularly exposed to the risk of poverty, particularly certain interim workers, workers from the part-exploitation economy, part-time workers, certain self-employed, etc. The economic activity as a result of the Corona crisis. Many companies will not be able to resume their activities such as the crisis: there are vulnerable groups who are still exposed to the risk of poverty, especially certain interim workers, workers from the part-time economy, part-time workers, certain self-employed persons, etc. The economic activity is retarded as a result of the Corona crisis.on 26 May 2002 concerning the right to social integration in order to increase a temporary rate of reimbursement of living wages by the State vis-à-vis the OCMW's within the framework of COVID-19'. The draft was examined by the First Chamber on 23 June 2020. The Chamber was composed of Marnix Van Damme, chairman of the Chamber, Wilfried Van Vaerenbergh and Wouter Pas, State Councils, and Wim Geurts, Registrar. The report was issued by Rein Thielemans, First Hearing Officer. The agreement between the French and Dutch texts of the opinion has been verified under the supervision of Wouter Pas, State Council. The opinion, the text of which follows below, is given on 25 June 2020.The fourth introductory provision should refer to the budget agreement and not to the agreement reached by the Council of Ministers, which testifies to the nomination clause. Article 1 6. In the Dutch text, the introductory phrase "an Article 43/4" should be written instead of "an Article 43/3." 7. Everyone shall write "between 1 June 2020 and 31 December 2020" instead of "between 1 June and 31 December 2020." The Registrar, W. Geurts The President, M. Van Damme 26 JUNE 2020. - Royal Decree No 43 amending the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration with a view to a temporary increase in the reimbursement rate of living wage by the State vis-à-vis the OCMWs in the context of COVID-19 FILIP, King of Belgium, to all who are now and will beOVID-19 (I); On the nomination of the Minister of Social Integration and on the opinion of the Ministers meeting in the Council, have We decided and decide : Article 1. In the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, an Article 43/4 is inserted: "Art 43/4. An additional 15% grant of the grant of the living wage is due to the public social welfare centre when the living wage has been granted to a living wage beneficiary whose application has been submitted between 1 June and 31 December 2020 and who has not received a living wage during the last three months preceding his application. This additional allowance applies only to the living wage payments granted between 1 June and 31 December 2020." Art. 2. This decision has effect with effect from 1 June 2020. Art. 3. The Minister responsible for Social Integration is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 26 June 2020. FILIP Van Koningswege: The Minister of Central State, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, D.