By way of its letter of formal notice No 699. - Guidelines on the granting of a service exemption to staff of the Federal Administrative Public Office who declare themselves able to present certain mild symptoms via the Self Assessment Testing Tool and who, on the basis of this declaration and the analysis by the Self Assessment Tool, are advised to be tested on the COVID-19 virus - extension of the validity of letter No 693 and 693bis for vaccination against the coronavirus (COVID-19) to the Federal Administrations and the Services Depending on it, the Ministry of Defence and the institutions of public utility which belong to the Federal Administrative Public Office as provided for in Article 1 of the Law of 22 July 1993 laying down certain measures concerning civil service.In addition, this scheme does not apply to staff who, regardless of the nature of their symptoms, feel sick to work. These staff must consult a doctor for a medical examination to establish their incapacity for work. The Self Assessment Tool is not intended for staff who need to be tested because they have a high risk contact, in order to obtain a valid COVID safe ticket (CST) or to travel. The staff member has the right to be absent from the work on the COVID-19 virus on the basis of the analysis and advice of the Self Assessment Tool. It is the staff member who is not allowed to make use of his work during the period of employment or to take part in the employment.The staff member shall not be required to disclose the completed questionnaire of the Self Assessment Testing Tool and/or the result of his test to his employer. If the test result is positive, the treating physician will then determine whether the staff member has a quarantine certificate or a medical certificate. In the first case, the staff member may continue teleworking. A staff member may use the possibility to be absent from work three times for a COOVID-19 test based on the Self Assessment Testing Tool. This scheme applies for the period from 19 November 2021 to 28 February 2022. 2. Extension of the guidelines on service exemption for vaccination included in Rev. No 693 and 693bis Originally provided that letter No 693 of 24 February 2021 - Guidelines for the staff of the Federal Administrative Public Office on the granting of a service exemption for vaccination against the coronavirus (COVID-19) and a service exemption for the volunteers at the vaccination centre.