This decision of the Flemish Government to regulate certain temporary measures in the policy fields of economy, scientific research, innovation and science communication by the civil emergency in relation to the policy of health following the coronavirus COVID-19 Legal grounds This decision is based on: -the Decree of 20 March 2020 on measures in the event of a civil emergency in relation to public health, Article 5 - the Decree of 30 April 2009 on the organisation and financing of science and innovation policy, Article 18 § 3, Article 59 and 63/2 Formal requirements The following formal requirement is / are fulfilled: - The Flemish Minister, responsible for the budget, has given his agreement on 5 June 2020 - No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, pursuant to Article 3, § 1 of the laws on the State, coordinated on 12 January 1973. There is an urgency because the federal corona measures taken by the National Security Council from 12 March 2020 on the normal functioning of the institutions in the policy fields of economy, scientific science communication and innovation, and consequently imposed under normal circumstances, can therefore no longer be justified by reason.Article 4 of the decision of the Flemish Government of 29 May 2009 concerning the support of the Industrial Research Funds and the interface of the Associations in the Flemish Community shall be added to the following paragraph: "In the case of a request made in accordance with paragraph 1 of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article, the following paragraph shall be added to the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article:Article 7 of the decision of the Flemish Government of 28 June 2013 on the framework of young researchers is added a fourth paragraph which reads as follows: "By way of derogation from the second paragraph, a university may submit a reasoned application to the competent administration in the year 2020 to depart from the maximum rates for the transfer of reserves and total accumulated reserves applicable on the basis of the second paragraph, if the university cannot comply with them as a result of the civil emergency caused by the coronavirus COVID-19." Article 8. This decision enters into force on the date of its signature. Art. 9. The Flemish Minister, responsible for economics, scientific research, innovation and scientific communication, is responsible for the implementation of this decision. Brussels, 5 June 2020. The Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, JAMBON The Flemish Minister for Economics, Innovation, Work, Social Economy and Agriculture, H. CREVITS, H.