Special powers decree of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region no. 2020/051 containing various measures with a view to the temporary suspension of the tax on tourist accommodation establishments due to the health crisis of the COVID-19 REPORT TO THE BRUSSELS-CAPITAL GOVERNMENT For the attention of the members of the Government, The preliminary draft decree submitted to you for examination aims to provide financial assistance to operators active in the Brussels tourist accommodation sector. Under normal circumstances, the operators of tourist accommodation establishments are subject to the City Tax, calculated per overnight stay, which is provided for in the ordinance of 23 December 2016 on the regional tax on tourist accommodation establishments. Since the outbreak of the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus, the effects of this global crisis on economic activity and tourism have greatly reduced the demand for overnight stays in tourist accommodation establishments. The reduction in international tourist movements, and in particular business tourism on which the Brussels hotel sector is heavily dependent, has had a strong impact on this sector, which is trying to survive despite a very low occupancy rate, while a significant number of tourist accommodation establishments are forced to cease their activities altogether. This sector is currently in grave danger and urgent measures need to be taken to ensure its survival until the hoped-for return to pre-health crisis levels of activity. One of the support measures adopted by the Brussels-Capital Region in favor of the above-mentioned operators was to suspend certain of their obligations regarding the regional tax on tourist accommodation establishments. For example, the tax on the establishments of tourist accommodation was suspended from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2020, as a result of the approval of the special powers decree of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region no. 2020/005 and containing various measures relating to to the tax on the establishments of tourist accommodation on the basis of the health crisis of the COVID-19. As the situation did not improve, the measures were extended for the first time, from 1 July to 31 December 2020, as provided for by the Ordinance of 29 October 2020 containing various measures relating to the taxation of tourist accommodation establishments under the health crisis of the COVID-19. However, the fragile state of the tourist accommodation sector has not received the expected respite and the sector remains close to bankruptcy, notably due to the announcement of the risk of a third wave of the spread of the COVID-19 virus. In any case, the socio-economic effects of the pandemic will still be felt during the first semester of 2021, both because the restrictive measures are likely to be maintained during the first semester of 2021, and because of the long-term effects of the economic crisis. which has hit this economic sector of the Brussels-Capital Region hard. This sector deserves the support of the Government given its importance for the regional economy and employment. In concrete terms, the suspension of the tax on tourist accommodation establishments includes the following measures that run from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2021: 1) the non-payment of the tax by the operator of a tourist accommodation establishment, or in certain cases by the owner of the immovable property in which the establishment is operated; 2) the suspension of the obligation to notify the operation or opening of a tourist accommodation establishment, within a period of 31 days; 3) the suspension of corrections by the regional tax authorities, of returns submitted by taxpayers; 4) the suspension of the ex officio levies by the tax authorities; 5) the suspension of requests for advance payment drawn up by the tax authorities on the basis of the data provided by the taxpayer. Accordingly, the taxpayer is no longer required to make such advance payments as the tax is not due; 6) any amounts that may have been received by the regional tax authorities, despite the above measures, will be repaid to the taxpayer without default interest starting to accrue. However, taxpayers are not exempt from the obligation to return their completed and signed tax return form to the regional tax authorities. The purpose of maintaining this obligation is to enable the Government to monitor developments in the tourist accommodation sector as closely as possible and to assess the relevance of future additional measures. For the information of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region: The Minister of Finance and the Budget, S. GATZ JANUARY 7th, 2021. - Special powers decree of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region no. 2020/051 containing various measures with a view to the temporary suspension of the tax on establishments of tourist accommodation on the basis of the health crisis of the COVID-19 The Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, Having regard to the Ordinance of 23 December 2016 on the regional tax on tourist accommodation establishments, Articles 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10; Having regard to the ordinance of 23 November 2020 conferring special powers on the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, article 2; Having regard to Article 2, § 3, 5° of the ordinance of 4 October 2018 introducing the equal opportunities test, which introduces an exemption to draw up the evaluation report referred to in Article 2, § 1, 1°, of the same ordinance; Having regard to the advice of the Inspector of Finance given on December 8, 2020; Having regard to the agreement of the Minister of Budget of the Brussels-Capital Region given on December 9, 2020; Having regard to the request for emergency treatment, motivated by the fact that the health crisis caused by COVID-19 is severely affecting the operators of tourist accommodation and that it is necessary to take immediate measures to avoid an economic catastrophe. In order to support this sector, which is at risk, the charges linked to the tax on tourist accommodation establishments must be lifted immediately; Having regard to the request for advice within 5 working days, submitted to the Council of State on 14 December 2020, pursuant to Article 84, § 1, first paragraph, 3° of the laws on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973 ; Whereas the opinion was not communicated within this period; Having regard to Article 84, § 4, second paragraph, of the Acts on the Council of State, coordinated on January 12, 1973; Considering that, pursuant to Article 2, § 3, 5° of the ordinance of 4 October 2018 introducing the equal opportunities test, the equal opportunities test must not be drawn up for a regulatory text for which the advice of the Council of State is requested in case of urgency; Considering that, pursuant to Article 2, § 4 of the ordinance of November 23, 2020 conferring special powers on the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region in the context of the COVID-19 health crisis, the advice of the Data Protection Authority and of the Economic and Social Council of the Brussels-Capital Region are not required; Considering that the tourist accommodation sector is virtually paralyzed due to the health crisis of the COVID-19, the operators of tourist accommodation establishments should no longer be subject to the obligation to give the prior notification imposed on them in the context of the tax on the establishments of tourist accommodation; Considering the enormous financial impact of the crisis on the sector, the aforementioned tax should not be imposed on them; Considering that, in view of the economic urgency, the Government therefore wishes to make use of the powers entrusted to it by Parliament to support the operators of tourist accommodation establishments during this difficult period so that this crisis does not irreversibly damage the activity; Considering that pursuant to Article 3, § 1 of the ordinance of 23 November 2020 conferring special powers on the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region in the context of the health crisis COVID-19, this decision must be confirmed by the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region; On the proposal of the Minister in charge of Finance, After deliberation, Decision: Article 1. The tax referred to in Article 3 of the ordinance of 23 December 2016 on the regional tax on the establishments of tourist accommodation is not due for the period from 1 January 2021 to and with 30 June 2021. Art. 2. The obligation to make the notification referred to in Article 6 of the same ordinance is suspended between 1 January 2021 and 30 June 2021. Art. 3. The officials referred to in Article 7 of the same ordinance shall not rectify the declaration, as referred to in 8 of the aforementioned ordinance, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2021. Art. 4. The officials referred to in Article 7 of the same ordinance shall not charge the ex officio levy, as referred to in Article 9 of the aforementioned ordinance, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2021. Art. 5. The officials referred to in Article 7 of the same order shall not make a request for advance payment, as referred to in Article 10, § 1 of the aforementioned order, for the period from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2021. Art. 6. The payment referred to in Article 10, § 2 of the same ordinance must not be made for the period from January 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021. Art. 7. Notwithstanding Article 14 of the Ordinance of 21 December 2012 establishing the tax procedure in the Brussels-Capital Region, no interest is due on the amounts repaid under this Decree. art. 8. This Decree takes effect from 1 January 2021. Art. 9. The Minister responsible for Finance and Budget is charged with the implementation of this Decree. Brussels, 7 January 2021. For the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region : The Minister-President of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, R. VERVOORT The Minister of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, competent for mobility, public works and road safety, E. VAN DEN BRANDT The Minister of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, competent for climate transition, environment, energy and participatory democracy, A. MARON The Minister of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, in charge of Finance, Budget, Public Service and the Promotion of Multilingualism, S. GATZ The Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region Government, responsible for employment and vocational training, digitization and local government, B. CLERFAYT